Lately, I've been learning more about AngularJS and I was using it on my project Oscillate.  Oscillate was a startup idea that I initially had in late 2011, but I sat on it for too long and in 2014, Splice is pretty much doing the same thing.  I'm using the Oscillate template for a new MVP that I'm currently putting together, but this forked code isn't public.  It's still a project centered around audio.  For this project, I haven't spent much time thinking about the business model, but it seems like a fun idea, so I'm going to put it together anyways.

The best part about this template is that I can have a new containerized, API-driven Angular app up and running within hours.  The frontend and backend have excellent separation of concerns, so the API could be switched out without affecting the frontend.  So, if I wanted to use an API written in Clojure instead, I could easily do that.  

Additionally, the API requests are all mocked on in the frontend using Angular's mocking facilities.  This takes a little extra effort, since I've basically replicated the behavior of the API in the frontend using ngMockE2E.  However, this is nice because Frontend app development can proceed independently of the backend development and your frontend dev's don't necessarily need experience in the backend tech you're using.  This mocking behavior can be turned on/off for deployment, so when you push to staging/production or when you're developer needs a running API, it will work with the configured API.

Another project I spent a lot of time on recently is Bioclj, which is code I wrote for Clojure's Bioinformatics Algorithms I class.  The code is hard to read, but the algorithm implementations are very efficient.  What I love about Clojure are its immutable data structures that make it easy to add parallelism later on.  The problem submission time limit for problems on the class was five minutes.  If you couldn't get your algorithm to run in that time, you didn't get credit for your solutions.  There were many times where I was able 
