### WTF Roanoke/Blacksburg

I have to be the software guy, the business guy, the marketing guy, all of it.  I can't do that -- I need to be the CEO or a high level manager.  I'm saying that I need to be in a position where I can realize a complex vision, which means directing other very talented people.  Also, It is very hard to network and grow a business team, especially if you're constantly moving back home! And in Roanoke -- there is just ZERO PERCENT chance of it happening.  **I'm sorry Roanoke, but for startups, you are fail.**  You can't even reach out to one of the best resources you have -- me.  Maybe that's narcissistic.  But, it's true.  And I've tried to attend -- and even form meetups -- to network, yada yada.  

And at Startup Weekend Blacksburg 2014, I pitched my idea for Oscillate, only to end up **working alone** -- where 10 minutes prior to pitching, I was told that I was "stealing someone's idea" ?!?! I'm sorry -- either something's wrong and I'm operating with a pre-emptively tarnished reputation -- or the best business majors and developers at Virginia Tech can't recognize a stellar business model when it's right in front of them.  Granted Startup Weekend isn't the greatest environment to launch a serious startup, but why the hell did I end up working alone on this project?  I made it very clear that my business had a viable business model, that it was exciting, that there was a need for it, that I had a very well thought out plan, yada yada.  And I end up working *alone?*  Yeh, whatever Blacksburg.  Maybe I smoked too much pot the last time I lived in Blacksburg?

It was ironic though.  By working alone, I got to receive all the credit for my work. :) :)
