---
title: "Ubuntu 15.10 Install On Macbook Pro 2013 (11,3)"
categories: blog
tags: "linux apple"
headline:
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

I recently decided to switch to Linux from OSX.  Or at least run
both.  I love OSX, so I'm not going to stop using it any time soon.
What made me decide to take the plunge?

Primarily Docker and TensorFlow.  Docker works natively on linux and
you can't use the GPU from within Docker containers on OSX.  At least,
not without sorting out a lot of unknowns to get VirtualBox to
passthrough the GPU.  I'm sure it's possible and a similar problem has
likely been solved in order for Amazon EC2 instances to allow GPU from
within virtualized servers.  But not one that I want to tackle.  As
for Tensorflow, GPU access doesn't work from within OSX.  All in all,
building open source software like OpenCV or TensorFlow just feels a
lot cleaner.

And the problems I solve in Linux, though frustrating, leave me with
an improved understanding of how operating systems and software
work.  And after you reach a critical mass, the issues you deal with
in Linux really aren't that difficult.

### 2013 Macbook Pro (11,3)

This is all installed on a 15" MacbookPro 2013.  That's the `11,3`,
which was released in October 2013. this will be nearly the identical
config for the `11,2` as well, although I think the `11,1` is missing
an nvidia graphics card .. maybe?  I donno.  it will be mostly the
same the `12,1` and `12,x` series. Honestly .. I'm just bullshitting
here and trying to cover my SEO bases. lulz

### Build Essentials, SSH and Git

Download the build essentials, so you can make softwares.

```shell
sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake autoconf git vim
```

Now retrieve your ssh key(s!) from your underground vault, so you can
git clone all the things. Add them to your keychain with `ssh-add
~/.ssh/id_rsa`. Running with KDE or CentOS makes me feel a bit better,
since the `ssh-agent` isn't always running.

Setup git config:
