---
title: "Kantian Category Collapse and An Algorithm for Standup Comedy"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: "'What did Kant say to Marx about Hegel's dialectics? Nothing, they all died in the revolution' - Lenin"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- decorate articles with a list of concepts that are required/helpful
  for understanding some of the concepts (as a tag cloud at the top)
  - separate from the actual tags from the article, but make the these
    concept tags similar in functionality, so that hovering yields
    a preview of the concept tag's content.
    - the concept tag page should have links to journals, wikis, etc
    - the concept tag page should be readily customizable, but
      somewhat autogenerated.

- should I also pull in the content about diffeomorphic methods on
  surfaces for extrapolating/manipulating epistemic structures?
  - this is probably one of the greatest contributions i could provide
    for philosophy because it is sufficiently different than the
    methods for epistemologic argumentation (listed on wikipedia LOL)
    - explain how it is differentiated from those argument-types

- also pull in the other examples of kantian categories from "speed of
  thought 4"
  - these serve as as analogies that eludicate these complex concepts
    to the average person

- before developing the need to explain possibiility spaces...
  - integrate the table of contents as soon as possible
  - describe how understanding kantian categories are critical for
    standup comics. briefly mention that there is a possibility of an
    algorithm.

- semantic chiaroscuro and the art of delivering a punchline.
  - like an artist arranging the use of lighting and positioning light
    sources, a standup comic needs to arrange the content of their
    routines so that the right elements stand out. when an artist uses
    chiaroscuro, they are anticipating how the mind perceives visual
    imagery to prioritize attention or move in a visual space, so that
    they might funnel viewers to anchor their focus on specific
    point. moreover, art with a high degree of contrast tends to
    excites our mind, partially contrast is deeply rooted and
    prioritzed in our brains optical processing pipeline.
    - similarly, standup comics and sitcom writers need to be aware of
      what people are might be thinking about as they set up a joke.
      - what's the term for the "reach" a joke might have? ...
        - some jokes involving physics don't work well, unless you're
          a writer for Big Bang Theory, where the audience is
          expecting that content and wants to relate to the
          character's interest in science.

  - at critical points in your routine, how to anticipate what the
    audience would not have yet anticipated?
    - each individual's mind constructs a possibility space that helps
      them predict what you're going to say next.
      - for someone who hears a routine for the first time, if they
        laugh at what they predict a comic to say, they probably laugh
        at their own jokes.
      - it is what audience members do not expect that that gets the
        best laughs. further more, like cheasy mobile RPG
        battle-systems, standup comics receive a chain bonus for
        sequential laughs.
      - would people laugh at a standup comic the same way to a
        routine delivered to an audience of one?
        - why not? because when we hear people laughing at jokes we
          didn't get or didn't think were funny, we have to reason
          about why. when the inverse is true -- not many audience
          members laugh, but an individual thought it was hilarious --
          then similarly, both groups might want to figure out why,
          those who laughed and those who didn't.
        - regardless, if scientists can prove that yawning is
          contagious, then so is laughter. when you're an audience of
          one, you're not affected by the vibes the rest of the
          audience are sending out.
      - analogy of critical mass: a comic gets on stage, but is fresh
        to most of the audience. the new comic has 5 minutes or less
        to establish themselves. even if they are heckled hard, which
        isn't likely, they only have to retain audience attention for
        long enough to get them to laugh so that the audience retains
        the expectation of more good punchlines before enough audience
        members solidify their decision on whether the comic was
        funny. if they get that critical mass early enough, then
        getting more laughs will generally be easier for the rest of
        their routine. if if takes longer than 5 minutes to get to
        that point, the audience will collectively form the opinion
        that you're just not funny. once this is even subconsciously
        set in their minutes, that expectation has a viral effect that
        is hard to overcome for that specific audience. given a fresh
        start at another venue, the exact same delivery might quickly
        prove to be a success. despite the interference of hecklers,
        which puts a comic on the spot, you have to feed what the
        audience is giving you. that should alchemically transmute the
        heckler into a golden opportunity, with enough
        spontaneity. ultimately, you're the entertainer. it's your
        job, not the heckler's.

  - how to handle a heckler? if you can't make them laugh, make the
    audience laugh. it's just a curveball and they get thrown at
    everyone. if you know how to nail that type of ball, you'll send
    it out of the park every time. but don't forget, when the heckler
    speaks up, he's sitting in the back -- especially if he actually
    turned out to be a plant -- and the audience sees your reaction
    first, stochastically, if they ever even identify him. If they
    don't want to be seen or remembered, they won't respond to your
    response, at least not immediately. Yet, since audience attention
    is on you, you have the initial opportunity to set the tone to how
    the audience perceives your response.

- refer to the example of the setup for the typical hollywood Mexican
  Standoff.
  - connect this to how our minds manipulate metaphysical forms and
    must seek consensus of mappings to representations of ideas in the
    minds of people we interact with.

When Will Wright penned this [2006 guest
editorial](https://www.wired.com/2006/04/wright-2/) on Wired, (... .)
with an opening that pares the tone and thesis of David Kirsch's piece
connecting [Tetris and methods of epistemic
inference](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1207/s15516709cog1804_1),
Wright's article reads more philosophically than most video game
posts. Though David Kirsch is an actual philosopher, how could top
video game developers not pursue philosophy, if not nominally, then at
least for pragmatic purposes. After all, they must reason both
deductively and inductively about experience, collectively -- and what
is it that philosopers do, if they can be said to do one thing,
specifically? They muse upon the experience of being human and of
experiencing, singly and collectively. A game designer must have an
awareness of how gamer will experience their art and, to excel, they
must efficiently and thoroughly explore the space of experience types,
ontologically. If an artist wants to be a true explorer of the
unknown, they must know where one can go, but also where they are and
where no one has been. Unless by naïve chance, a creator seeking true
novelty distinguished from mere originality can only find this by
critically examining their domain's corpus mundī.

What does this mean when the vision motivating art must anticipate
experience-types of players? What are their sextant and compass?

(...)

In his article, Will Wright introduces and helps catalyze the notion
of the possibility space, a concept originally derived from math and
physics. What is a possibility space? It's the space that contains all
possible system states or game states, which is more simply discribed
for games with discrete spaces than continuous spaces. The possibility
spaces is one space which is understood more profoundly when
understood ontologically -- which is precisely how [AlphaGo] beat
humans far faster than expected. Ontologically -- this is literally
how the algorithm was designed to understand game-states of Go, and
thereby the possibility space.

> This, I myself understood was possible before the AlphaGo algorithm
> was designed, via learned ontological distillation of possibility
> space in ML. From the conceptual level, it is precisely the same
> solution to the [Boolean Pythagorean
> Triples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boolean_Pythagorean_triples_problem)
> problem, which itself has a possibility space. Of course, no one
> ever listens to what I say, as such is beyond the sociophysical
> possibility space ... alas I digress.

Collapsing a possibility space can proceed along many different
surfaces, but not all such methods for collapsing the possibility
space conveniently enable integration over its domain or similar
methods of aggregation. The algebra generating the possibility
quotients of the domain used to divide or disect the possibility space
domain must remain consistent algebra that generates the structure of
the space. Operations on the possibility space must follow other rules
of similar nature. Using functors to lift types to various categories
of structure changes up the rules and how they apply, determining the
specifics of associativity or commutivity. If you your operations
preserve isomorphism and/or allow a natural transformation, then
complementary functors lower your lifted-types back down to their
mutated but valid state. This process connects quantum mechanics to
Lie Algebra, though it's not an example of manipulating a probability
space..

However, it is still possible to analytically analyze some space by:
assigning/modifying probability to units of the space, algebraically
aggregating some units of the space, filtering the space to receive a
sparse matrix, then permuting that sparse matrix using the
best-fitting sparse methods for the job. In such a way, you use
analytic methods to analyze the system, even though you become
decoupled from the algebraically-derived numeric representation of the
system. The solution to the Boolean Pythagorean Triples that relies on
an ontological dilineation for a number theory proof is *NOT*
analytic, which critically distinguishes it AlphaGo's algorithm, which
constructs a dataspace that allows it to construct ontologically
derived metrics, which determine the typological distance between
ontological meta/types of gamestates.

### [Of All Possible Possibility Spaces]()

However unintelligible, (the above paragraph) indicates the utility of
methods that involve a possibility space -- it contains all
possibilities. It can't always be constructed or efficiently
represented.

#### All are the generalized construction of a domain

- a possibility space is the domain for all possibilities
  - (...)
  - mention how countability and thereby the axiom of choice affect
    the construction of the domain which represents the possibility
    space.

#### All provide metrics for identity or similarity

- the notions of metric from Functional Analysis. (TODO: describe how
  this is useful in constructing im/perfect metrics for identity or
  similarity)

#### All are composed of dimensions which can be combinated or deconstructed

- the notion of algebraically constructed dimensionality, which may
  not be connected to the potentially ineffable numerical means which
  construct the space. The structure for some problem constructions
  may itself be uncountably complex and if so, do not lend themselves
  to numerical methods. Neither Zermelo nor Frankel have enough
  buckets to count all that.

#### All exhibit spectral phenomena

- the notions of spectral phenomena, which arise in any system that
  has frequency and for which the fourier transform provides an
  invertible map to and from the spectral domains. This fourier
  transform surprisingly becomes incredibly useful in advanced
  statistics, yielding the characteristic function.
  - umbral calculus
  - But again, such spectral methods may not be perfect, as neither
    Zermelo nor Frankel have enough buckets to finish counting
    that. The axiom of choice has implications for the true parity of
    valuation for infinitesimal values -- this i intuitively believe
    to be relevant for spectral methods but I do not know.

- the notions of frequency of events and event types

### Kantian Category Collapse

- the application of possibility space collapse to that of the Kantian
  Category.

Now, to dissect humanity's understanding of epistemology with the
notion of a probability space. What we either know or are experiencing
will soon have its possibilities collapsed

parallels the idea of Possibility Space collapse

- start with the spiel on standup comedy
- also pull in ideas from other articles?
  - method for computationally analyzing statements (an algorithm for
    jokes. technically its an algorithm that tries to identify the
    variance in semantic impact of statements as text (or voice) is
    processed)　- also, argue that this measure of "semantic flip"
    (which is like a measure of clique-flux in the possibility space
    as a sentence is parsed) is generally higher for japanese than it
    is for english.
    - yet, since people leverage language as a means to an end for
      expressing an idea in their head, they adapt their use of
      language to accomplishing this end.
    - when speaking any language it is important that the listener
      receive the semantic impression intended by the speaker, but it
      is also considerate if speaker does not cause the listener to
      extrapolate, with temporary certainty, towards emotionally
      unsettling semantic interpretations of exceedingly contrary,
      converse or jolting meaning.
      - doing so is an important tactic of communication in
        appropriate circumstances, but can cause listeners to
        temporarily feel the emotionals that would have been implied
        if the meanings of the statements weren't clarified by
        subsequent statements or clauses. several examples:
        - the prosody of speech can cause the listener's subconscious
          mind to race ahead and begin processing text
          - though i personally have poor control over prosody of
            speech and joltingly observe, via an feedback loop of
            emotional responses implied by facial expressions or
            movement at the neck, the noise that occurs in the
            subconscious minds of those whom i'm speaking with, which
            they manifest sub/consciously by erratically reorienting
            their thought processes to my bursty rhythm of speech
            - when people with an agenda want to convey to others that
              this indicates a thought disorder -- and hence must be
              part of some schizotypic set of signs -- this does an
              ungodly amount of harm to the person with autism and
              severe repressed emotional trauma which has never been
              acknoledged
        - intentional use of body language or social context can allow
          the speaker to encode conflicting signals, which wreaks
          havoc on the ability of the subconscious mind to perceive
          clear meaning. (e.g. manager speaks while others can hear
          the statements, but can't see his body language that
          indicates lack of respect or conveys ulterior motives. when
          this happens and the manager believes they are talking to
          someone who is autistic and has trouble perceiving
          communication, it can be cruel because the listener doesn't
          have communication skills to follow up and has never been
          conditioned by social experience to learn to resolve such
          situations without escalating them)
        - or, you eat at a dull restaurant by a listless waitress
          where you were given poor service. the check comes and the
          waitress hovers and, with body language or misleading
          statements, you indicate to leave without tipping before
          turning around giving 10-15% that isn't deserved.

- use the idea of "the moments before a mexican standoff" to:
  - define how ideas/anticipations that are contained within kantian
    category can impact reality, and predictably so, by impacting the
    decisions of people.
  - the ideas contained within people's subconsciously derived
    expectations of some situation can exhibit gravity on actors by
    influencing their decisions, actions and the timing thereof.
  - in a tarantinoesque gunfight, the mexican standoff was only made
    possible through the convergence of the anticipation there might
    be a gunfight. otherwise, those involved couldn't pull their guns
    out in time to respond to the rest of the group. since it could
    not occur without all characters involved being readily able to
    respond in time, a condition of possbility for a mexican standoff
    is the convergence of a specific idea within the kantian category
    among individuals in a group. that a similarly structured idea has
    converged through the group and has its own representation in each
    of the individuals' minds implies sufficient parity for the
    structure of ideas represented in the minds of individuals to make
    this possible, despite that every individual's mind has its own
    unique, analytically derived means of encoding meaning, attaching
    it to ideas and assigning meaning to expression or action. in the
    case of the mexican standoff, each character is well-aware of the
    decision-making possbilities of enough of the other characters to
    be as ready to respond as Clint Eastwood. event though each
    individual's representation for an idea is uniquely structured in
    terms of what exists in their mind, these ideas and
    represenationas can converge and even reach consensus among a
    group.
    - this is what distinguishes mankind from animals, who are capable
      of creating and manipulating abstractions, but who do not have
      the genetic and neurological prerequisites to seek and
      distribute consensus of abstraction among groups, which leads to
      language. in addition to the other abstractions encoded and
      semiotically represented by language, humanity not only named
      the animals, but also critically sought consensus for those
      semiotic pointers. to test this assertion, one might teach a
      gorilla to teach a gorilla how to use sign language.

- maybe introduce this idea here, maybe not...
  - it's useful for providing an example a Kantian category as a
    possibility space of ideas.
  - it also provides an example of kantian category collapse, but
    requires understanding a possibility space, linguistics (grammer)
    and the idea of n-grams.

- the effects of SVO/SOV grammatical structures on how people
  process/collapse the kantian category of anticipated meaning while
  parsing speech
  - japanese is a SOV language; english is SVO; this completely
    changes the grammatical structure of statements and (particularly)
    the ordering of the introduction of concepts when speaking.
  - in Japanese, because the verb comes at the end of sentences, only
    then is the possibility space of potential meanings collapsed.
    like russian and korean, japanese is an agglutanitive language
    where modifications to words change their syntactical meanings.
    - parsing japanese requires building a larger possibility space in
      the minds of listeners. this possibility space is constructed
      from the concepts introduced in as-yet-unresolved statements and
      fragments, which can only be connected at the end of a sentence
      or clause.
      - when this connection is made, the previous clauses of a
        sentence can have their tense modified from present to past or
        from positive to negative. (more on how clauses which could
        function as isolated sentences can have their tense or meaning
        modified by adjacent clauses)
        - what a listener hears as "that memory is fantastic" then
          becomes "that memory was proceeding fantasticly when it went
          horribly wrong" by the time the sentence is completed.
          - the former sentence fragment only fails to parse
            semantically, (like green dreams that sleep furiously),
            which would inform the listener subconscious mind that the
            possibility space for anticipated or final statement
            meaning can begin to collapse around this semantically
            invalid [condition of possibility] -- or lack thereof.
            - word salad
          - such is what the human mind is constantly doing,
            subconsciously, when processing speech, text,
            communication or expression. it considers all
            possibilities, then eliminates what it can from the
            volumes of possibility space as soon as it can.
            - by methods similar to the [n-gram algorithm], the
              possibility space containing experiences to anticipate
              is generated by the context of the minds experience. the
              specifics of how the mind prioritizes some signals over
              others is conditioned throughout development, but it
              tends to prioritize more recent experience over less
              recent.
            - n-gram algorithm are well-recognized by the every day
              person; otherwise, the jokes from late-night TV and
              youtube about Google search suggestions just wouldn't be
              funny at all. n-grams are used for text prediction and,
              generally, in seq-to-seq algorithms to predict the next
              elements of a set. in the subconscious mind, a similar
              process analyzes signals, exposing to the conscious mind
              a set of expectations to anticipate over various lengths
              of time. whether the punchline was or was not within
              this set of expectations is quite often precisely what
              makes a joke funny, but generally understanding what the
              listener *does not expect* as your punchline is what
              gets laughs.
              - (this aspect of standup comedy is actually a great
                means of introducing some of these ideas ... since its
                relatable)
              - only by understanding how listeners and types of
                listeners construct their individual context of your
                statements can you transcend being the butt of
                slapstick humor. not only is every individual's
                subconscious mind obsessed with extracting meaning by
                reducing the complexity of neurolinguistic possibility
                space through kantian category collapse, but you
                cannot be funny, intentionally, without an intuitive
                understand of how this process functions in the minds
                of the every day person.
        - the grammatical inversion has effects on expression and
          nuance similar in nature and wider in scope to the
          differences in adjective ordering in french and english.
        - also, similar are the function words from late-middle
          english, wherefore shakespeare's plays save these words from
          fading entirely from social memory. that's what his plays
          are there for. so these words, whence possibilities for
          elegant grammatical expression emerge from the options they
          offer for reordering sentence fragments, aren't lost
          forever. with them and with similar function words in other
          languages, you can reorder your statements for nuanced
          impact on your listeners such that ideas are introduced in
          any order you wish.
        - even though such function words as heretofore, whereby and
          thereof sound confusing to most of us who don't understand
          their literal meaning, their usage can greatly simplify
          doubles, triples and tuples of sequential sentences,
          resulting in text with less words -- delivered precisely in
          the same iambic pentameter you know and love, but do not
          know why.
        - though the meaning of these function words is literal --
          e.g. heretofore: it be-fore here or now; thereof: it is of
          there; whereby: it is by there or by such means -- it is the
          act of inverting the syntactical impact on statements that
          makes them difficult to understand. using them, especially
          without the requisite frequence to reinforce their
          functions, requires reexamining and remapping the
          relationships that exist between previously introduced
          fragments.
        - they may seem overly complicated or unnecessary, but it is
          more efficient and more expressive than not using them,
          which allows a speaker or writer to more densely or
          intentionally pack meaning into statements, introducing
          ideas in the order of their choosing.

    - japanese is also a drop-pro language, which means that speakers
      drop words from sentences by default, unless they are necessary
      or desired for reducing ambiguity in statements. the
      first-person pronoun "watashi" is considered over-bearning or
      mildly rude to include unless necessary.
      - this property of drop-pro further expands the "volume" of the
        Kantian category for potential meanings of sentences. This
        compels speakers to become aware of the current context of
        other group members in the conversation or experience, whereby
        the computational complexity of collapsing the possibility
        space is implicitly reduced by ensuring that members of a
        group stay on the same contextual wavelength.
      - contextual information that is required to parse sentences is
        extricated/compacted from the recent statements into the minds
        of individuals having conversations.
        - for drop-pro languages, the social context of speakers is
          implicit and, unless you are engaged with the experience a
          group is having which motivates their statements, it can
          become difficult to follow along with their conversation,
          since the state of their shared social context is often
          never explicitly encoded into the statements of speakers.
        - english is not drop-pro and thus the statements made by a
          group explicitly re-reference phenomena from their shared
          social context. As long as the group is focused on those
          ideas or stimili, then their statements will need to
          repeatedly articulate them, though the extent thereof is
          diminished by the usage of pronouns, innuendo and
          dynamically mapped tokens that function as
          temporarily-valued place-holders of meaning. The last tactic
          involves dynamically setting words or ideas almost like
          variables in a programming language, so that the group can
          communicate about them while being overheard.
    - Both that the Japanese language is SOV and drop-pro partially
      explains why translation algortihms operate so poorly for it:
      there is too much potential ambiguity for analytical algorithms
      to collapse the possibility space into concise representations
      of meaning.

    - are which denote the implied grammatical relationships of the
      introduced subject, objects and clauses cause the possibility
      space to collapse
    - also, brief comment on how implied first-person-only usage of
      some verbs affects the possibility space and why

- because of the (uncountably complex) nature of CCG's, algorithms
  which use this form of grammatical construction must be analytic in
  nature.
  - linguists applying data science must understand well the
    frustrating limitations of capturing, in totality, all possible
    grammatical constructions



- how intentionally preventing kantian category collapse (or
  information-system possibility space collapse) by withholding
  information -- perhaps while occasionally encouraging stimulation of
  ideas which border on delusion -- does an (ungodly amount of harm)
  to someone suffering with severe repressed emotional trauma.
  - imagine a victim of domestic abuse whose exceedingly small social
    boundary doesn't allow information to be diffused. or perhaps
    someone who is elderly and doesn't have social access. imagine any
    information relevant to the causes of their suffering or for the
    alleviation of it, as a policy or informal rule, is neither
    diffused inwards towards the victim nor outwards from the victim
    to society.
    - now, when that victim of *traumatic emotional experience*
      **repressed into oblivion by society** -- or the connections in
      their 1º or 2º social boundary -- is held fixed in isolation
      bordering on the vacuum that is solitary confinement ... what
      happens? *NOTHING AT ALL.*
    - Just as Newton's Second Law of Motion applies in the cold vacuum
      of space, objects in motion stay in motion, absent any
      socioinformational forces acting upon them whatsoever.
  - assume this victim is otherwise rational and wants to seek to end
    their suffering by understanding its causes enough to avoid them
    altogether.
    - (segue)
    - How? By expanding and convolutionally confounding the
      computational complexity of the informational systems they must
      resolve the

- with such trauma in a toxic miasma of misunderstanding
  - ... whaaaat?
