---
title: "Oneironautics: Analyze This"
categories: blog
tags: "dreams psychology"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# Intro

# A Dream About A Great Dane

- Date: sometime before Nov 26th, 2016

#### dream where this dog (a great dane) kept licking my face


- kind of a silvery coated great dane
- i'm not sure how i met the dog. i was in some building with open
  space and open floors, like a dance studio, but in the back area
- when i met the dog, she was with her owner, who was also a
  photographer (very famous locally or something)
  - the dog seemed to be one who had been raised somewhere like floyd
    and wasn't accustomed to meeting people very often. This i
    reflected upon in the dream.
  - it's personality seemed to indicate that she wasn't guarded and
    never needed to be reprimanded for being a dog.
    - the dog didn't seem to know what it meant to be a dog.
- anyways, the dog saw that i was kinda down.
  - it had something to do with the night before and being alone
  - she immediately started licking my face, which i normally hate,
    but i just didn't do anything.
    - she kept doing it for a few minutes and the owner thought it was
      hilarious... i have no idea it was a dream
- the owner tried set us up for a photo, but in doing so, the dog
  suddenly lost interest in licking my face which prompted our
  interest in the first place.
  - no matter what we did or how we tried to egg her on, she wouldn't
    do it anymore after that.
- kind of a wierd dream, but there was a point to it, i promise


# A Dream About A Cat

- Date: night of March 8th, 2018

#### dream where i found a cat just outside my house that i thought was my cat from childhood (named roxanne)

- the dream was fairly lucid in that it felt real, like i was making
  real decisions with the full capacity of my mind, although i didn't
  realize it was a dream.
  - it was a dream i entered after meditating for a while
- i was walking out of the house to go somewhere (from my bedroom) and
  found the cat close by the door. the cat felt familiar, so i brought
  it into the house. i thought it was Roxanne. my mom was talking to
  an old friend who was meeting her for brunch or something.
  - the cat seemed to want attention, but did not want me to see
    something. the more kept playing with it and petting it, the more
    obvious it became that something was wrong.
  - the cat gradually started to morph from my persian cat to one with
    shaven hair and finally changing color from soft black into a
    tabby cat. it had a dark green and grey coat with with dark, thin
    stripes.
  - suddenly i realized it wasn't my cat, it was a stray. i finally
    realized what i sensed it was hiding from me. it was missing it's
    left front leg, but in it's place was the poorly healed untreated
    remnants of a leg.
    - i immediately wondered whether it had been hit by a car. and
      began to realize i couldn't let it go. it hadn't wanted me to
      sense what was wrong with it because it had the experience of
      being rejected for it's injuries.
    - i started crying in the dream and immediately woke up

#### Notes

- similar to my brother's cat? (cat with anxiety/ptsd. successfully
  interacting with their cat is similar to interacting with me: make a
  quick connection, but don't linger to long because the interaction
  will almost certainly take an unfavorable course after 3 minutes)


# A Dream About A Flood and Calculated Manslaughter

- TODO: date?

### dream where someone tried to set me up to drown in a flood


- (when writing this, separate the dreams & my injection of
  interpretations)

Basically, someone from my childhood tried to set me up in a situation
where I would die and should could claim it was an accident. IRL, she
is a friendly older woman figure that I trust, so let's call her
Alice.

> This is during a flood (a general weather event where emergent
> situtions become capable of anticipation, but are those which most
> younger, less experienced people would feel were an accident



#### Starting with Porn

I don't even fucking know. It was something like VR porn. I was in it?
But there was also a tape involved. The time and events here were
fairly unclear. This is wierd, but I'm including this because it's
strong imagery opening the dream must be correlated to the rest of the
dream.

It certainly wasn't clear how I got from this situation to the
next. This didn't feel like the kind of dream that was analytically
generated by a mind submerged in sleep, yet it did seem to include
many of the same features.

#### Posting on Facebook

- the next thing I remember is writing a post on facebook. this is
  wierd because I don't usually dream about digitized means of
  interaction.
  - interactions in my house? these dreams occur often. interactions
    set in some natural environment are more frequent. urban
    environments or corporate environments are rare, although walking
    or driving on the road is a theme that crops up often.

#### Finding myself in her car

- I next found myself in her car, a Red SUV. It was raining hard and
  flooding. As I looked over to the river, the waters were still
  mostly contained before they breached over the road, but as time
  progressed the strangely murky brown waters, quickly began to
  chaotically eat the road. In the dream this transition occured on a
  timescale that seemed to happen in seconds.
  - As it did, my attention was on the murkiness of flooding rivers
    that toss sediment about: this appearance is an phenomenon of
    optical occlusion in water with suspended solutes of many
    different sizes. The light doesn't reflect/refract evenly
    throughout the liquid. I noticed this effect in the way the waters
    unevenly began washing over the road. To me, it appeared that the
    water wasn't were it seemed to be, but it was tossing about
    fast. This made it difficult to see where the road was and where
    it wasn't. This is where I started to feel impending danger, but
    not distrust.

#### Getting Close the the River

Alice started driving the car towards a road near the river. It was
one of those moments of danger where you either ask questions about
"hey, where are we going" or you don't or you just figure it out. Oh
joy! We're going towards danger! How you react in those moments and
how you let someone control your descent is critical to your survival,
should you ever be targeted.

As she approached that road, instead she began to cross grass down a
very mild slope. To me, in signaling how I should respond, was perhaps
the most critical dream. She was calm and presenting me a neutral
reaction, looking right at me, while her steering wheel was bouncing
around in response to the mild, but someone turbulent motion of the
change in terrain. However, she wasn't simply letting the steering
wheel bounce around, she was anticipating the correlation of its
motion and moving it to exacerbate its motion. These are like many
other moments in life, where I began to recognize incredibly malicious
cognizance. She read and *felt* the correlation of the steering wheels
motion and exacerbated it, but was also simultaneously not trying to
lose control of the car. WHY?! Because she was considering the tire
tracks in her mind. If the motion of the car were exaggerated
*slightly*, then it would add to a narrative useful *after the course
of events*, which were supposedly an accident.

> This is how I react in such a situation. I've been here before. I
> reflect calm to match or surpass the normalcy of calmness by which
> my adversary displays. They are calm? They project control. I
> reflect calm. A stronger, more normal calm? It's a battle of wits,
> which provokes cognition (a dispersion of mental energy) in those
> who are attacking me. It is in the height of their uncertainty that
> I act. Why? Because I am certain that they are threatening me. I
> must be calm & collected and they must become uncertain of the
> course of events. This is apparently deeply engrained in my
> subconsciousness. And you're damn right it is. In 2010, I've had to
> consider throwing a car into a telephone pole, when I got in a
> stranger's car who I later realized was perhaps driving me to my
> doom -- when I realized the door-handle was dangling and I couldn't
> escape if I couldn't overcome fear. Then I realized that he had
> intentively commanded my attention the entire time and was aware
> that I wasn't aware that I couldn't escape. Did I let terror control
> me. HELL NO! *And I was on acid.* What happened? That nice, cunning
> asshole drove me home.

As she started to act, I remember that the post was an anticipation of
a similar course of events: I felt that the flood brought with it some
kind of danger; that some set of events would unfold, where the
environment would create the opportunity for someone to act against
me.

> From outside of the dream, I cannot recollect whether she was aware
> of the post, but I remember the awareness that also caused me to
> write it is what saved me.

#### Being Trapped in Beside a Small Ridge, where the door couldn't open

She had piloted the car, so that it would spin around and pin the
passenger side door against a small ravine. Her intent was apparently
to have me blocked in, but given

#### Having the Waters of the Flooding River Whip the Car around.

This saved my life. Since I had my murder on my mind and my mind on my
own impending murder, I was like "Oh shit! This is happening now. Get
that fucking door open. Bye!"

> As dreams are the generative modalities of the mind constructing
> environments for the conscious mind to experience, they end up being
> like a child presenting your mind with a poorly constructed
> maze. Although the simulation feels lifelike, features of such
> labyrinths lack coherence and consistency. Even if you find yourself
> trapped, it is as though an analytic machine is reverse engineered
> in a poor way -- not unlike a Generative Adversarial Network -- so
> that analytic constraints on the experience of generated reality
> placed in front of you are full of wholes, giving you plenty of easy
> outs, so long as your personality isn't one to freeze up when facing
> threats. If you do have such frightful character flaws, then any
> such dream is likely to become a nightmare -- however, the truth is
> that you've *decided* to trap yourself and the waking world is
> probably not so different.

So, even though I had been trapped against a ravine, this seems to
have been a whole in the labyrinth. The waters whipped the car around
and, since my mind had been waiting for my chance to act, I opened the
door as soon as I could. While this was happening, the single fear on
my mind was not one of drowning, but one of having not taken total
action while I had the change: I was focused on the fear of having
been trapped in a submerged car where the water would no longer permit
the door to open.

> My mind is at ease with death. It is not death that I fear, but fear
> itself. I should never give up, never until the end. Fear merely is
> a tool to control the minds of the weak and it works by taking
> advantage of those who did not become strong soon enough in
> life. *This is why we should seek knowledge, thereby power and
> especially the capacity for strength early in life,* **so that fear
> should have no power over us.** The instant you give yourself over
> to fear, you are doomed: I fear this more than even death. Life
> trapped by fear is not worth living. It is critical that we do not
> allow ourselves to awaken in a situation where there is something to
> fear?  But, gaining such security requires seeking strength and
> power early on. **This is what Americans are being encouraged to
> fear today: and it is the key to our survival in the future!**
> Succumbing to fear is always what those who wield fear as a weapon
> want you to do: they want you to submit to their power. Once you do,
> they lock you away from the tools you need to stand up for
> yourself. Never fall for their lies: you are *always* better off
> before you submit to fear; this is it's very utility as a tool to
> control people; you gain power over people by encouraging them to
> make bad decisions.

#### Seeing my friend peering back up from the waters

She had made it out and was safe. Here, I began looking down into the
river as if floating above it. I saw a friend from childhood looking
back up from it. This was nearby the bridge, so the imagery of the
bridge was "above" me when i was peering into the waters. Visually,
the image was presented to me as though the muddy waters of the river
were simply faded away, like the cheesy 70's "fade" transition between
two rolling reels of film. It was as if the statement "peering through
the waters" was interpreted as a command by the generative facets of
my dreaming mind. He looked back up at me, standing on a road. I got a
feeling that he was involved somehow.

> Now that I think about it, this was a friend who I used to skate
> with. We were in band together, but I had seen him recently, so
> that's probably what primed the neural circuits that correspond to
> his neurological representation in memory. After awakening, I do not
> feel that he was involved, per se, but that my mind meant to say
> that people close to me were involved and always have been.

#### Starting to talk to the First Responders

Here there was a lot of waiting. EMT's and police were collecting
details for insurance purposes, since her car had been swept away, but
I began to fear their involvement. I did not want to immediately
contest what had just happened because anyone who was aware that what
had just happened was the product of someone's intention to harm me
would selectively filter out information useful to my side of the
story from any public records.

> I've been the target of conspiracies before and I know that when
> these things happen, there are more people *who know* than you would
> think. It's one way to advance yourself in American society:
> demonstrate that you're willing to look the other way while shitty
> things happen to good people. If bystanders are aware, *they are not
> innocent*, they function as cleanup crews: they identify and contain
> the causal consequences of information that sticks out and
> contradicts the official narrative. If they identify that the
> official narrative will not *stick*, then they prefer to suppress
> any and all information related to the situation: *nothing will come
> out*.
>
> That's why I choose to play detective on my own and collect
> information to use as one might use extra cards in a hand of
> poker. I'm better at being a detective anyways, apparently. I would
> rather force my adversaries into being over-confident about lying,
> so that I can surprise everyone with new information later on. They
> are not going to play fair with you and you should not play "fair"
> with them. This becomes useful in demonstrating how *everyone
> involved fabricates, selectively lies and suppresses information to
> my detriment*. The problem with such a strategy is that good people
> get caught up in the misinformation: they do not like looking bad
> when a conspiracy begins to emerge and so they will also choose to
> suppress information.
>
> **Remember: this will always proceed in a manner that is selectively
> detrimental to the target.** That is how *operations* work, they
> process the *target* to an increasingly vulnerable state.  Everyone
> involved abuses the system to advance that goal: for someone who is
> truly a target, the system will never allow itself to advance the
> target's goals or the target's protection. THUS, THE SYSTEM IS NOT
> YOUR FRIEND. Work outside of the system and you might just
> survive. In fact, if you are a target, involving other people
> becomes risky for their safety. Involve them as much as possible.
> This is also their fight. No one asked for an America like
> this. People need to see this for what it is, until the authorities
> no longer feel free to operate maliciously with impunity. **Rule of
> law**.
>
> **You're probably not a target,** so keep that in mind. There are
> several reasons no one hears about *operations*: &#x9312; they are
> well covered up &#x9313; the authorities process the target into a
> marginalized, vulnerable state so they can act without
> socioinformational consequences and &#x9314; operations like this
> just don't happen very often. The system usually has much better
> ways of manipulating a potential target into handling themselves by
> encouraging the target to become associated with crime, become
> violent, etc. You practically have to be as clean as Jesus Christ to
> survive such processing and marginalization because they encourage
> you to become insane or legally vulnerable, so they can throw you
> away in a trash can marked either PRISON or MENTAL INSTITUTION.
>
> If you are a target, be wary because these people do not play nice
> and they will not hesitate to trash your life and torch your family
> tree *on a whim*. That's right, the 3rd Amendment is toast. THE
> THIRD AMENDMENT. That should frighten you. It means that you are
> essentially being quartered with soldiers. *Target* is a term with
> military implications. In combat, only people who are targeted can
> be engaged with force, lethal or otherwise. If you are a literal
> target, they are likely not going to kill you, but it is in the
> cards. They would much rather put you in a mental institution.
> That's often what it means to be "crazy" in America: you got
> targeted.

- instead of focusing on the *murky* truth that she had just tried to
  kill me, which would be difficult to prove, i instead began focusing
  on how to help her account for the situation she *tried to create*
  where her car was swept away by the flood, so that she would be
  alright, for insurance purposes.

- there was an eerie pause in developments here. *in the dream*, i
  became aware that these people were waiting to hear my response
  because they all needed to react to it.
  - it was here that i noticed details were being collected "for
    ensurance purposes". I assumed that people's eerie anticipation to
    see how i reacted indicated their cognizance of an operation.

#### [She] was taken somewhere else

gradually, the

#### Being Forced to Walk Home

- i was basically forced to walk home

#### Meeting Friends Nearby (they were walking towards the river & scene of accident)



#### Walking With Friends Across the Bridge (Near the Railroad Tracks & River)

- all the friends were from high school (KM, BC, ... those are the
  only faces I remember)
  - they were walking towards the river.
- when they met me, the didn't want to stay. i started trying to
  question why they were physically moving away from me, which quickly
  became accusatory "oh, so you can't be associated with me, huh?"
  basically...
  - at this point, they slowly turned around and were "with" me as i
    trekked up the hill, but they were intentionally moving
    faster. they perhaps just wanted it to look like they cared enough
    to turn around. they started to walk faster and eventually ditched
    me, making accusatory statements about "nazi this, donald trump
    that"

#### Warping To A Skating Rink in South Caroline

- where my mom wanted to get some pictures taken. I don't think she
  yet knew what had happened. when I got there, DJ equipment started
  falling to the floor. yet, i don't think the focus on the DJ
  equipment was strong. The lighting was blue, the floor glowed and
  there was more emphasis on lighting and music.

#### Why did this dream seem different?


- IM cerebrolysin, before i went to sleep, perhaps made the dream's
  imagery stronger, with a longer and more continuous narrative

- many details were coherent with someone's intent to murder and make
  it look like an accident

- some of these, really, wouldn't likely come from my subconscious
  mind, but perhaps. It is possible.

- the friends who were walking


### Notes on last dream

-

# Conclusions


- this cat seems to react to its own injuries/scars similarly ...
  that I've been afraid to hide from other people. years ago, i
  wouldn't have wanted to burden others with my pain. i lost the drive
  to hold anything back a long time ago when i figured out people were
  counting on me being quiet, for whatever reason. most people would
  simply be too embarrassed, anxious or afraid to speak out if they've
  been through what i've been through, especially understanding what i
  know know about what happens to those who talk about their
  psychological scars. my hesitation was originally centered in
  misunderstanding the causes: from 2010-2015, i actually thought my
  scars were a product of extremely bad luck in my career and my own
  obsession with ruminating on failure. i didn't understand that
  people engineered by psychological torture. after i started writing
  about it and people tried to convince me to unpublish everything i
  had written on it, it felt wrong and i decided that i didn't care
  about the impact on my employability. i was not going to be talked
  down so long as there was a chance for my writing to help others
  avoid the same pain. i still didn't understand what had really
  happened or the extent of everything that I was still being
  subjected to. i don't understand the full scope of consequences that
  writing about my negative experiences has had: it's almost as though
  everyone in my life has read a memo that says: DO NOT DISCUSS
  VERBOTEN TOPICS WITH DAVID CONNER.

### About the cat dream?

(2018/12/18) My reaction today? Fuck that cat! now... hear me out. I
would never be that cat: I will always wear my scars proudly. I also,
would never ever push that cat away. In fact, someone traumatized by
forces beyond their control (or within their control) should never be
pushed away. That's wrong. I gravitate towards these people or
animals, even though they may have







### Wierd "Spider Bite" Dreams Where I Wake Up Sprinting

These have mostly occured from

### Wierd Neurological Time-Processing Paradox Dreams

- this should be taken to be a thought experiment, but i cannot
  explain what I've experienced several times after these Spider Bite
  dreams. to the best of my knowledge, the technical neurological
  information is factual, as are the analogies to stream processing in
  computer vision and machine learning. however, i'm trying to explain
  my subjective experience of sensory/causal "time travel" upon waking
  up ... so the overall hypothesis is merely that: a hypothesis that
  may elucidate what happens when streams of neurological signals are
  truncated for long periods of time. no. there is no time travel
  involved. and yes, it could simply be a neurological glitch, but
  often that's where you learn the most about how the brain works.

- basically, i've had two or three "spider-thread" wakeups, where no
  "bite" is involved, but a sensation that a spider is dangling itself
  down onto my face suddenly wakes me in the characteristic rush to
  turn on the lights. in the instinct-driven transition from some
  typically dreamless cycle of sleep to blitzing out of the bed, what
  i remember here is the "idea" that there's a spider directly over my
  face accompanied by long, thin tube-like imagery in total darkness
  that tends to resemble stretching optical networking fibers when i
  reflect back on it. it's not a dream. it's the timeless (tubelike)
  sensation of a Salvia Divinorum trip in near total darkness, but
  here one or two bright colors stretch themselves in a long cone-like
  shape as the visuospatial imagery presented to my consciousness
  morphs into an infinitely tall cylinder. it's wierd. it's this shape
  that gives me the only visual image immediately before I wake up: a
  single thread of spiderweb. yet, it seems this image only
  incidentally accompanies the purely semantic idea of "SPIDER!!" that
  sends me into a blitz, where only mid-sprint does my mind correlate
  the "optic fiber" image and arachnoid.
  - however, one particularly vivid "spider-thread" wakeup left me
    extremely confused about the course of events. As i was running to
    the light-switch to turn them on (and I did flip the switch), my
    immediate (+10s - +60s) examination of my memory of waking up
    included ONLY imagery of my room where the lights were already
    on. And I hit that fucking light switch ... but pouring over all
    the visual data immediately afterwards? The lights were already on
    ... yet, i still had the same nearly pitch-black, thread-like
    imagery of the single strand of web. the lights were off before i
    woke, but all the visual aspects of the memory indicate that from
    the very moment i opened my eyes, the lights were constantly on
    until i was left perplexed about the causal paradox.

- "null and void" - quaternary systems of values have: true, false,
    null, void (or what is essentially void) .. void would indicate
    that the data location is missing/invalid or that returning null
    would be misleading.
- hypothesize that, for data that the brain has never experienced as
  "missing", if this data or the streams that carry it instead
  propagate data almost completely perceived as "null and void", then
  the brain's tendency to fill in the gaps of its experience may step
  into overdrive. memory of spatial relationships is nearly useless
  without the sensory data necessary to orient oneself in
  space. still, it would still be possible to operate on memory alone,
  even if visual streams are perceived as "null and void".
  - but, if i jumped out of bed and hit the light switch while an
    infinitessimally rare glitch caused visual data streams be
    perceived as void, then how would my consciousness perceive this
    this course of events? looking forward, if there was no visual
    data, and my mind was operating on autopilot with deeply engrained
    spatial data about the layout of my bedroom, then perhaps my mind
    filled in the blanks with a visual patchwork of imagery overlaid
    on top.
    - (while dealing with inconsistency of thought/memory immediately
      following an abrupt interruption of sleep) if my brain did so,
      while receiving nearly zero visual input, then perhaps it
      reconstructed it's memory of rushing to the lightswitch with
      zero awareness of the lights being off. hence, looking back on
      my own memory, the lights appeared on the whole time, even
      though i clearly remembered the sensation of the strong "snap"
      exhibited by my over-tightened, loud bedroom lightswitch. the
      two elements of memory: the tactile snap of the lightswitch and
      that it did not visually change the state of the lights are
      incompatible. time travel? probably not. is my hypothesis
      correct? i'm so far out on weak assumptions that Occam's razor
      is in pieces, but assuming my recall of the experience *was*
      valid, then there are three possibilities: (1) time travel (2)
      aliens (3) or something else.
    - if i'm correct, then i believe that the thinned cylindrical
      spider thread, with its strange filaments of bright red and
      orange are simply a result of extremely limited visual
      processing. basically something is malfunctioning in occipital
      lobe, the "points of sensory convergence" in the thalamus, where
      auditory pathways approach the visual pathways, or in the
      optical chiasm. far more likely than the former two, the latter
      is spatially centralized and maintains fairly direct pathways
      throughout its X shape until it reaches the occipital lobe.
    - it is well-known that the mind tiles in patches of visual data,
      overlaid on top of a (sparsely updated constraints on the
      arrangement of objects in space.) this process operates
      similarly to a computer-vision CNN in reverse or, more simply, a
      bit like Google Deep Dream. instead of updating "every pixel on
      the screen at every refresh", the mind is more efficient in time
      and energy if it stochastically stitches in patches of imagery
      overtop sparse constraints updated by visual stimuli, as they're
      made available. this implies that the brain operates in
      qualitatively different ways if a person finds themselves in a
      new or unfamiliar environment, until enough information is
      received so that the stochastic "tiling" methods can take over.


#### experience of non-linear time

  - i have experienced non-linear time before, once. it's unbelievably
    confusing to the point of being permanently irreconcilable to the
    person who experiences it. obviously, the other people in that
    situation? they were experiencing time linearly: everything occurs
    in-sequence and there's no skipping around. this was a experience
    in 2005 where for a half-hour, memory of dialogue jumped out of
    sequence and cycled. for me, experiencing time moving forward
    caused me to play and replay fragments of memory and dialogue that
    would occasionally skip backwards and repeat. never eat Amanita
    Muscaria!!! this experience was terrifying for everyone
    involved. still, it left me puzzled as to how my brain would lead
    itself to loop and shuffle 15-60 second fragments of memory until
    it stabalized. the experience implied that, in order to provide
    the emulation leading to the sensation of awareness known as
    consciousness, the brain does some very interesting things to
    permit consciousness to observe and reflect on its while recording
    memory and enabling flexible cognition. and apparently, its very
    possible but exceedingly rare for the experience of consciousness
    to glitch out and expose "chopped and screwed" fragments of
    memory, each seemingly occuring the first time with vague memory
    of that fragment having already occurred. there are other possible
    explanations for what my brain was doing, but the point is: when
    enough processes in the brain become swamped with corrupted data,
    things get weird. the experience of consciousness moving only
    forwards is not guarenteed by the mind -- but it's not time
    travel, obviously.
    - i can't repeat this enough: do not eat those fucking
      mushrooms. they're legal, but they will kill you or worse.
    - why is this phenomena of temporally corrupted consciousness
      possible? because the brain is constantly stream-processing data
      to various parts of itself. keep in mind that this is pure
      speculation. when exhibited at large enough scale, these streams
      of ionic & electrical activity contribute to types of
      brainwaves.  there are several kinds of spatiotemporal
      components to signals being streamed and the information
      representations that are stored in short-term or long-term
      memory. there are some aspects of memory read/write that must
      logically resemble a spatiotemporal tensor decomposition.  if
      such a tensor were corrupted upon contraction in such a way that
      causes data about time & space to be skewed (while seemingly
      preserving the integrity of the data) then this would cause
      comparison of events in time to result in invalid sequences. as
      perceived, the flow of time may accelerate or decelerate, the
      memories associated with experience may seem "sparse" or more
      rich with details, or experience itself could potentially be
      presented to consciousness out of sequence.
      - however, it's far more likely that the mind would not be
        capable of processing such invalid data at all: the signals
        wouldn't simple appear corrupted, they would potentially
        destabalize adjacent neural circuits until normal behavior was
        restored. some mechanism like this might be responsible for
        such phenomena as "beer-recall" where physical representations
        of memory would be more conducive to integrating with adjacent
        circuits or intermediary pathways if the local and global
        chemical state were similar to that when the memories were
        recorded. while beer-recall seems rare, some studies have
        shown that, after studying with adderall, accuracy of recall
        is best when the test is taken on adderal.

- the best way to explain it is that it feels like a salvia trip when
  I wake up. this has only ever happened a handful of times, but seems
  to be connected to the "spider bite" dreams.
  - this is going to be very difficult to explain, but understanding
    what's happening neurologically speaks volumes about how the brain
    seems to stream-process temporal components of experience,
    particularly sensory data.
  - imagine that your brain stopped forwarding data from it's senses
    to the thalamus, but for some reason still permitted itself to
    engage with the world (for a period of 20-30 seconds after waking
    up)
    - how would the brain respond to a sudden cessation of sensory
      data? e.g. imagine that visual data proceeding from the retinas
      through the optic chiasm into the occipital lobe is disconnected
      before waking up. the intermediate layers of visual processing
      in the occipital lobe would stop receiving data (TODO: image
      mapping brain regions to CV algorithm and/or capsule networks)
      - what happens? there is a curious absence of signal from the
        occipital lobe to other regions (e.g. parietal lobe centers
        for object classification and for perception of spatial
        orientation of objects; these two networks are completely)
        - this "absence of signal" may simply be incoherent and
          unintelligible signal that results when sensory streams are
          cut.
