---
title: ""
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology philosophy"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---


- [fdsa](http://www.rocksandminerals.com/glossary.htm)

Have you noticed how dark it is out there in the modern world? There
is a frightnening blanket of darkness threatens our lands confusing
our subjects's minds. Nothing can be known with certainty. Lies and
deceit are spewing out of rectangular portals, parroted by the na√Øve,
and sharpened into unweildy weapons for knaves. All to cover up lies
and deceit -- but whose? Nobody knows. Spirits and daemonic forces are
brewed from dark energy, stirring up mobs -- the rich, the poor, the
doomsayers, the opportunists, the terrified and the terrifying.

Imagine laboring in a coalmine in the late 19th century. Power and
information flows from the top, one is turned against the other and
every spends their money at the company store, but where does all it
go? Straight back to the top. In this mine of theirs, you never see
the light of day and you might not know who you're talking to and
perhaps even who you're talking about. Everyone wears headlamps, the
kind that coalminers still wear today. If you're lucky, your piercing
luminance might refract and illuminate a diamond in the rough.

Be steady about your feet and shine the light where you step. People
who get injured down here might not come back for another day's
bread. Look around you. In your mind's eye, did you turn your head?
Everyone sees where you're looking -- that beam of radiant light
flowing outwards from betwixt your eyes conveys precious information.
To you, to others, from you and from others. You can all instantly see
where each man is looking. Their light informs you of the dangerous
precipices below you. You can see where they see and it shows you
where loose gravel might have you slip into a pit of choking darkness,
where you'll rot alone with just a few unwise cigarettes to nurse your
broken bones.

Some days, near unexplored regions, the canary doesn't make it
out. There are ghost stories about some of these networks in your cave
system and no one goes down there -- no one has ever been down there.
Yet, never being one whose disposing is tireless servitude, you crave
the day where you'll bring out a cache of diamonds, secretly, but
they're all in the deepest, darkest recesses.

Now, imagine there's strange source magnetic interference in the
area. It penetrates all the craggy layers of bedrock -- shale, coal
and all. To this field, each man's headlamp is attuned. When this
interference pulses, each man's lamp brightens or it dims, all at the
same time. Sometimes it creeps in slowly, sometimes it affects just
the miners next to you and other times it takes the entire crew by
suprise. Everyone sits in darkness staring at the sanguine filaments
of the dimmed lamps, motionless. Everyone in the company swears it is
a ghost or that some shafts are haunted. With sharp memory and focus,
one can remember the way out.

### [Fear *is* the Mind Killer]()

This interference is the sociophysical field of fear, the headlamps
are your attention and the cave is always changing. The light from
these lamps is just like the field of view that FPS AI uses to process
its understanding of your movements.

What you empower with your attention is illuminated to others and each
miner recognizes that, to survive, they must see what others see and
what they are looking for. Some people have intuition for this and
never think about it consciously. To the mob, gravitating towards the
maximums of collective attention is how they've always known to
live. With social media, the surfaces of the cave are changing faster
-- but each man will always have the same capacity for attention.

There is another sociophysical force field: love. Machiavelli wrote
about fear and love -- both have powerful effects on attention, but
each act in qualitatively different ways. Both are important and both
have positive and negative effects for the individual and for local
social groups like family and friends. Both exhibit positive and
negative dynamics in aggregate for the collective. Fear helps you
avoid danger and focus on what you need. Love gives you hope, gives
you peace or at least helps you forget.

Psychologists and neurologists have studied what happens when your
mind becomes overwhelmed by fear. Psychologists and neurologists write
about this evoked emotional state in the subject as the "fight or
flight response" and it can emerge naturally in all situations in
life. Often, it's colloquially explained with references to your older
"lizard brain" which formed over the core of the brain and processes
information at lighting speeds. But, when you are overtaken by fear,
whether it is fear in the moment or fermented dread, the effects on
your attention are similar: your attention narrows and without control
your conscious mind yields priority processing to your lizard
brain. You process much less information with prefrontal cortex and
you don't generate new possibilities. To those in power or those
lusting after it, *proactively* influencing the field of fear tends to
cause subjects of their actions to respond *reactively*. The set of
possible reactions evaluated by the mind is filtered as the
attention. Whether the person manipulating with fear acts violently or
happens to disguise their behavior as socially acceptable, if they are
aware of the cognitive ramifications, then they know they can use your
vulnerable state of mind to make inferences about the predictability
of your various reactions.

That someone would intend to use fear in this way is usually a warning
sign of a threatening situation, though using fear does have its
purposes. In situations where violence or deceit is in the wheelhouse,
you should immediately suppress the fight or flight response and
*project* a sense of being in control while you resort to cunning and
guile to get the fuck out. That is, you project that you already know
what you're going to do; you suppress saccadic movements of the eyes,
you consciously direct your attention to what you want them to react
to, but without setting off the threat. Their level of cognizance and
possible previous history of being in these situations will speak
volumes about how they expect to be able to use fear to coerce
disadvantageous responses from their subject. Use that knowledge to
your advantage. Know your enemy.

If they are cognizant, it will not be an accident that you are caught
in an intensely vulnerable situation. That there is one exit or that
your physical options and movement paths are limited or that you're
outnumbered or that you were emotionally riled up or were probed for
vulnerability and/or profit potential (e.g. in violent theft) -- none
of these factors will be accidental. Therefore, control the
circumstances to ensure you avoid incidentally encountering vulnerable
situations and they will never initiate the situation you fear.
Further, after multiple attempts to place you in vulnerable
circumstances, you can intuit their cognizance to act ... more or
less. Unless it's a junkie or a spineless thief, if they know you've
had time to permute the circumstances and detect the nascent threat,
they won't act at all, without overwhelming motivation/power. Doesn't
mean they weren't thinking about it. And [limited] empathy with the
potential offender will tell you, they usually must have time to plan
what they're going to do. They've thought about it or they're
executing preconditioned behavior patterns and the potential for a
profitable situation emerged to trigger it. A junkie who owes money or
needs drugs is in the process of finding a victim.

As you juxtapose the circumstances, read their level of control to
reorient the situation back to what they imagined. If there are risks,
they've thought about controlling the risks and random perturbations
forces them into cognitive overdrive to reevaluate risk and
control. They can't act without letting you in: they have to be aware
of risk, as the situation develops and thus, their mind is toggling
between lizard brain and prefrontal cortex. If premeditated, they've
already committed the crime in their mind. This is also a risky
potential attack vector for you, since they assume you don't know what
they're planning. You can fuck with their head emotionally, but not
with the wrong type of offender.

Above all else, avoid these situations entirely. That means to probe
the minds of people you become involved with and examine past patterns
of behavior -- *before you need to react*. To respond, you need to
have already conditioned patterns that make you strong. Offenders,
sociopaths and psychopaths preying with fear will stay away from you
if you are strong or look like a problem. Unless they're psychotic and
irrational, then when they use fear, they are probing you intensely
for feedback to inform their next actions. This, unexpectedly, gives
you power over them (but can also backfire).






### To Further Justice and strengthen Altruism, how should we balance Love and Fear?"
