all this time, everything that's been done for me and i have nothing to give back.  basically, until give up my dreams of launching a startup, i will lack the capacity to give back to everyone who's done so much for me.

of course i love her, but i don't feel like i can show that love without screwing everything up.  i can't talk to her and i'm not sure i ever will again.  if that's how it is and how she feels, that's ok.  i understand.  look at me and my life, my decisions and my lack of willpower to climb out of this hole.  why would she want to connect with me?  at least as things are now. that's not to say that i don't believe it's possible.

i don't want things to be awkward.  i mean i felt bad enough about the girl from the coffee shop that i gave my number to.  such a simple action led to -- at least, as it appears to me -- making a friendly platonic relationship into one that was awkward.  i guess she thought it was creepy or something.  really, i just thought she was alone, i didn't know she had a boyfriend and i thought she was going to be alone on valentines.  and so i felt compelled to act, so she wouldn't end up feeling like me on vday.  it's dumb that i even thought a girl like that would end up alone on that day. 

anyways, so what have i done here?  i feel like i screwed everything up, over and over.  i'm sorry that my reactions created tension.  i didn't know how to deal with this, waking up to something so amazing.  honestly, it was the most beautiful thing i ever experienced.  it defied comprehension.  

but it hurts to think that i could never repay this karmic debt.  everything that's been done for me -- and by so many people -- defies explanation.  what have i ever done for anyone else, except wanting to help others?  i have a desire to help people, but it is honestly impossible for me to arise above what is holding me back.  my greatest strength -- my mind -- apparently is also my greatest weakness.  i want to do so much with my life and my mind is always so scattered that i can't organize my time or break down my lofty goals into achievable milestones.

i have so many obstacles in my life.  i can't drive when i want to.  it is also hard for me to communicate.  so arranging transportation during normal waking hours is sooo unnecessarily difficult that i'd rather drive to the colab at night.  the problem there is i end up being isolated, as much as i like the night crew.  but there's only like four people that work at night.  

so i'm going to talk about isolation for a second.  doesn't it bother anyone that my interactions with others are so limited?  it's my fault, but again -- communication is difficult for me.  i could list a dozen close friends that i could ask to hang out with, but two issues always come up: 

first: i don't have any money and i'm so always a burden on those around me.  they want to go see a movie? NO MONEY.  go out to eat?  NO MONEY.  go to wherever and do whatever?  no money.  oh, and can i get the car?  well let me see if i can communicate with like a dozen fucking people to coordinate one simple activity -- did i mention that's not a strong suit?

second: i haven't done anything for these people, so i feel guilty whenever i draw on them more and more.  i've done nothing but burn out all my connections in my vain attempt to create a product.  A PRODUCT THAT NO OTHER PERSON HAS EVER WRITTEN A SINGLE LINE OF CODE FOR....

but yet, i'm told: just get a job, david.  well, lets see what the !@#$ happens when i get a job.  oh, i get bullied out of work for being different and for communication issues and for other things that i don't really want to blame out of fear of looking weak and pathetic and like i'm just seeking sympathy.  

this is not to say that i couldn't dig myself out of this hole.  BUT I DON"T REALLY THINK PEOPLE ARE GETTING AN ACCURATE PRESENTATION OF MY SITUATION!!  can you see that i'm socially isolated.  if you drew my I.R.L. social connections on a graph, how many outgoing and ingoing arrows would there be?  now, if you added in a metric you could use to highlight the strong connections -- the connections i talk to on a weekly basis.  

what would that look like?  you would see two arrows: one from me to my mom, and one from my mom to me.  that is really the only person i interact with.  is that healthy at 30 years old?  to strain that relationship constantly?  and yet, i look like shit because i don't have a good relationship with my mom...  oh, great!!  

back to looking at my IRL social graph.  how many other **strong** connections are there? not many -- especially outgoing arrows from me.  in fact, there's practically none.  if it weren't for the colab and the skating rink, i probably wouldn't talk to a single other person outside my family -- AND THATS HOW IT WAS FOR MONTHS!! in parts of 2014 and parts of 2015.  it's my fault though. 

and i get it.  people want me to transcend my communication issues and my faults.  that's actually not such a bad idea.  but here's the problem: THERE"S NO FUCKING WAY_I CAN DO THAT IN ROANOKE WITHOUT_A CAR DURING_THE DAY.  if communication issues are already problem, then i need to limit the ones that prevent me from ever doing a goddamn thing in the day.  i mean, me wasting my effort on talking to people just to get the car, just to go to the colab.  that's not a productive means of resolving my communication problems.  that's just a waste of fucking time because they aren't problems that "NORMAL" people have to do.

so basically, ya get what we have here.  i just look like a fucking pathetic piece of shit.  and one who receives such an inordinate amount of help from other people.  so basically, it looks like "OMG david is such a loser.  so many people are 'trying' to help.  but he still can't get it together."  and as much as people listen to me, no one listens to me.

and so, you could say that getting a job would address these issues.  but will it really?  i'm thinking about applying to a job in denver or SF or NYC.  but ... really?  one, i have to give up my dreams, basically.  and then, i have to go through the same exact process: 

- moving everything
- getting a new job
- dealing with a soul crushing workplace bully who's just laying in wait for me
- getting fired because some asshole contorts every situation for ammunition to use against me
- and ending up near homeless and dangerously depressed
- having to call in my family and again dangerously stressing those relationships...

so, i'm supposed to look forward to this?  

and while all the help from everyone makes it look like the deck is stacked in my favor, there are really several specific factors that essentially NULLIFY ANY CHANCE I HAVE AT TURNING IT_AROUND:

- i don't have a car that i can use without communication.  in roanoke, this creates unfair communication issues for me and burdens me with tons of problems.
- it's easier for me to work at night.  yet, this CAUSES me to be socially isolated.  and limits the amount of time that i have to do certain critical things: like making a fucking doctors appointment
- it's been hard for me to reach out for the medical attention that i need.  and i get it.  it was kinda my choice to avoid reaching out for help, because i was constantly in denial of needing it.
- without getting an official diagnosis, it's hard for me to get a job -- OR_KEEP ONE...  with an official diagnosis, i feel like shit leaning on it as an excuse to hang on to a job that apparently i can't perform at.
- i spend so much time in my own head, ruminating on the past and on my current situatoin.  and i get it, that's a waste of fucking time.  but it's hard for me to structure my time and energy to accomplish things.  when i try to do this, i think about my problems.  when i think about my problems, i'm more likely to start ruminating over all the pain in my past and in the present.
- my only strong social connection is my mom.  she definitely does help me with groceries and gas -- but my only strong social connection is getting strained to the point of being irreperably damaged.  while it appears that she helps me -- and she definitely does -- when i examine the things she doesn't do for me, it leads me to question 
- without a consistent sleep cycle, it's impossible for me to make an appointment or to make a commitment for my time.  D&D group?  no, i donno if i'll be awake.  Volunteering with CoderDojo?  Don't know if i'll be awake or sleeping.  scheduling time to work on an arduboy project? not sure if i'll be awake.  DO YOU SEE A PATTERN HERE?!  also, one of those things my mom *doesn't* do is help me wake up.... not that she should have to do this, but it's medical ok?  i realize that now.  and as much as i don't want to blame that (or even mention it) that is what it is. if i could just have 2 months on a regular schedule, i would be fine.  also, if i could get on adderal instant release, instead of extended release, i would be much better off.  but i'm afraid to ask my doctor for that, since i have drug abuse on my medical history.  i'm likely to be told that i'll get nothing at all!!! #@!$!@ $#@! $#@! $!@
- all the money i make, i spend on vitamins, and the occasional herbs.  vitamins are crucial.  omega-3 (DHA, not that other shit) is INVALUABLE in preventing neurodegeneration.  to bad i can't afford it, right?  i'm basically slowing down.  i am on huperzine, which helps a ton.  i'm on "brain awake", which also seems to help a ton.  i've just started an immune-boosting round of herbs.  i have to, ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO be on vitamins because my DIET is SHIITTT!!!!
- oh, and i have dietary concerns: I CANNOT EAT GLUTEN -- or i have bowel movements that make me smell like SHIT.  oh, the smelly guy from middle school?  at least he didn't smell like SHIT.  try making/keeping friends when you have these problems...
- i also need to be on a ketogenic diet, which forces your body to get energy from fat.  I HAVE TO_FOLLOW THESE DIETS, especially the fatty diet.  or i will DIE! so can i go out to eat at that restaurant?  well, maybe, but can i afford it?  nope.  can i eat ANY food at the skating rink?  NO!  i can't eat candy.  and i'm ok with this.  i could bring food with me.  but that's a concern of organizing my actions before i go to work.  it's hard for me.  i'm trying.  but asking me to do this by myself is VERY HARD. 

so basically, i get the feeling like the deck appears to be stacked in my favor.  but because of these nullifying factors above, it doesn't matter how much energy andl ove that people pour into my life.  it doesn't matter how much energy i invest in improving my situation -- IT ALL GETS NULLIFIED.  and! it makes me look like shit ... kinda. i guess.  

i really don't mean to sound ungrateful, but here i am ruminating.  but i'm looking at my todo list.  and i see 10 people that i'm supposed to email (out of really like 100 people that i should talk to)  but these 10 people have been on my list for a week now and i haven't sent a single one.  i see about ONE HUNDRED BLOGS that i'm supposed to write.  i haven't worked on a single blog in months.  I see a D&D group that i'm supposed to help organize .. that i would love to participate in.  but it's hard for me to accept committing that time.  i was supposed to apply for the hacker job at YCombinator.  i could still do it, but there may be no point, since it's been 3 weeks.  i could barely write a 5 minute speech each week.  

and i just get the feeling that, as involved as people are in my life, they are not getting an accurate understanding of what is going on because it's very difficult to see the nullifying factors i listed above.  and even if you see them, then don't make much sense until you observe them from my point of view.  you just wouldn't understand unless you were in my shoes.  or unless i explained it like this.  although i guess this is about the worst tone of voice to use.

and i can't speak openly.  people chastise me when i post things on twitter or facebook.  yeh, i get it!  it. looks. bad.  i'm sorry. but do i have any social connections with which i can really discuss this stuff?  yeh, i guess so, but i've been so cut off in life for SO FUCKING LONG that i just don't know what that feels like.  i'm having lots of issues where IF I COULD JUST EXPERIENCE THESE THINGS, i would be FINE.  but i don't experience them because people expect me to -- fuck, my brain just dropped packets, this happens like every five seconds, whats the word i'm looking for?! -- initiate these experiences.  like reaching out for help from friends.  and talking to people about things to do on the weekend --- 

HAA!!! weekends, i don't actually have them.  for as little as i accomplish, i never actually take a break.  and this is something that i'm working on -- exercising makes me feel much better, making sure i go to an event, like i did tonight, etc, etc.  it would all make me feel better.  except it means i have to spend an inordinate amount of effort doing this.

and trust me, my life right now is 100x better than it has been at certain low, low points.  but, i guess the three things that would improve my life the most right now, in order -- 

#### (1) Having a reliable sleep cycle.  

this is just fucking crazy.  i can't ever simply expect that i have a certain block of time available.  for someone who has high functioning autism, ROUTINES ARE THE KEY TO PRODUCTIVITY.  I get it. I fucking get it!! i'm 30 years old.  blah blah blah. but could someone PLEASE FUCKING HELP ME_WITH THIS>..


#### (2) Not having to communicate or schedule transportation.  

basically: either moving out of roanoke or getting a car. The communication challenges I need to overcome -- ideally -- should not include transportation or other basic needs. I'm sorry. 

#### (3) having someone to help me assess my goals and help me with them. 

i feel like i'm losing my mind. a lot of it would be improved by simply having a reliable sleep cycle.  but everyone around me is like: DUDE, U R THURDY YEARZ OLD!!  

### to sum it up

in order for me to obtain the things i need to be happy, i need to be able to give back to someone else.  i need to be in the position where i can help other people.  and i just CANNOT get there unless i have some help.  i'm sorry.  but i am completely socially isolated.  no one sees me like this -- and maybe that's for the best, i donno.  
and trust me, i hate being negative about this.  but how do you think i feel?!  i feel like so many people are doing so much for me, i'm absorbing allll this positive energy.  and it doesn't matter because of the nullifying factors i listed above.  all the positive energy in the world wouldn't pull me out of this -- because i can't focus to do what seem like ordinary, routine tasks. and for those of you who don't know what's going on with me, i can't tell you, i'm sorry.  but it's hard.  it makes the most mundane, simple tasks VERY VERY difficult.  and it makes me look like shit when i'm at work -- and even though part of my mind exceeds those around me, my mind for the most part holds me back.  

and i want to be someone who overcomes their struggle and is inspirational to other people.  but i feel like i'm completely failing in that regard.  and for that, i'm sorry.  i wish i could be that person, but i've failed so hard so far.  i still believe it's possible for me to become that.  i still believe i can overcome some of this.  but i can't do it by myself.  and that's what's so fucked up about me being alone.  most people at my age have a strong network of friends (mine have been ripped away by getting fired)  or they have a partner or wife or family that helps (but i feel like my actions from 2005-2010ish really hurt me and that my symptoms greatly contributed to my lack of foundation).  

but i guess the worst part is that i can't talk to anyone about it really, without letting them know what's wrong with me.  because otherwise, it just doesn't make sense and i get the: "DUDE, YEW R THURDY YEARZ OLD. GET IT TOGETHER MAN!"  It's really a fate that I've chosen by blissfully remaining in denial, but it hurts.  it really hurts.  Like i want to email part of this to my family, but i don't know that would do any good.  so i can't reach out for help and i'm stuck.  and everyone else is just like "dude, we're helping him so much and he'z blowin it..."

and i don't know what happened to me in the past few weeks.  one week, i was writing an advanced graphics library with tons of functionality.  not doing great, but doing pretty good and i was ENJOYING working on a truly advanced CS project.  again, not doing great.  but doing good.  then the next few weeks, i declined and now i can't figure anything out, i'm constantly distracted. constantly confused.  i went from writing like 400-1000 lines of code in a day.  to writing like 30 lines of code, if i even tried.  i guess i'm feeling depressed and that is PART of it. but, in the past few years, i've learned to pay attention to my cognitive processes and ... it's basically like they suddenly disappeared.  i went from feeling the best i had in several months, to suddenly feeling the worst i have ever felt, cognitively.  AND BECAUSE I"M ISOLATED, NO ONE NOTICES!!!  i have to tell people and the only person i can really talk to is my mom.

i have no idea what happened.  i mean i started smoking a little weed for two weeks and i was still doing fine (not doing great with the coding while i was high, bc it's not a great combo).  but i was doing ok.  i literally smoked a gram of sativa over the course of 2 weeks -- A GURRAAAMMMMM...  and then i got another graaam of weed.  a single gram.  and took 3 weeks to smoke it.  this was indica and i dont' know if the strain has something to do with it.  i do know that THC/CBD is neuroprotective in almost every situation.  I dont' even know if it was the weed -- honestly, i think it was something else -- maybe my 2 months or so of zero exercise.  my diet has been consistent.  

regardless, all i know is that WHAM! i can't think.  complete brain fog.  i messed up counting down from TEN on the microphone.  couldn't even count down from ten.  lots of "dyslexia" when trying to speak.  my brain would swap word order, etc.  there was an increase of incidents where i can't find the words i'm looking form.  i pay attention to these things and use them as a metric to gauge my cognitive performance.  and in the past 3 or 4 years, there been a steady decline (even though i've stopped using drugs) but there has never been a decline so rapid as this.  and it scared the fuck out of me.  

so i stopped smoking weed.  i dont' need to do it.  i might smoke again sometime.  but with these kinds of issues, when in doubt, drop it.  remove things that are unnecessary.  get on a steady diet.  pay attention to your food, your exercise, changes in mood, etc.  i'm trying to do this.  but it really scares me how quickly and how unnaturally my cognitive performance declined.  but again, no one really notices because all my social connections have been SEVERED!! or ... well ... it's hard to say they've been severed because i really haven't cultivated them.  
but yeh.  i'm going thru alot right now.  and i know what needs to be fixed.  i want to be strong, but what is the point of 'strength' when you either don't have the plan or you don't have the capacity for execution to make the most of that strength.  all the strength in the world to endure a negative situation won't help you if you choose to "stay in the hole."  

and i guess it's irritating that, suddenly, i find that i don't have the ability to say what's on my mind on social media.  i get it though.  when i say negative things -- regardless if it is 2015, or 2014 or 2008 -- it makes *me* look bad.  i dont' care if something makes me look bad, or ... well i guess i do, but i'm really trying to reach out in the only way that seems to visibly affect things (which is really bad).  regardless, i do care to not make other people look bad, when they are only trying to help me.  but i don't know what to do.  there's a ton of things that are going on right now that i can't tell people about.  if i did, THEY'D THINK I WAS DELUSIONAL.  great, lol

and i regret spending so much time watching TV ... well, ok, i love watching TV lol.  especially with so much compelling content. but, one thing i'd like to do is just block off a day or something and catch up on everything at once.  not really hard.  

while it's great to see so many of my ideas come to life -- let's be real, it's not great, it's fucking magical.  it's amazing.  priceless -- but i still would like to build something.  and if that's just not in god's plan for me, i'm ok with that.  in fact, it's almost better this way because it frees me from having to think about how i'm going to do all this stuff, if someone else is doing it.  it's really amazing.  from the tylt energi backpack to splice to all sorts of other projects that i may or may not have had a hand in ideating, it's great to see so much stuff becoming reality.  but at the same time, it's really hard to be thought of as nobody.  

then again, i've had some experiences that lead me to believe i'm better off as someone who's not recognized.  i truly do fear all the attention i would get.  i think i can handle it, but it's hard to be in that situation bc it really does change how people think of you, how they interact with you and many other things.  

there was a time when i was in a bar in boulder and i went outside to smoke a cigarette.  this guy told me he was homeless and asked for a cigarette.  and he was telling me about his situation and i wanted to help him. he joined me at the bar, beside my coworkers.  i'll talk to anyone who talks to me and i really don't care.  and this guy didn't like smell or anything, but i could feel that it was making my coworkers uncomfortable.  he left and after that, i wanted to cry.  i had the sudden realization that if i were to "make it" with a startup, i could never interact with someone like that again, at least not in the same way.  not in a completely natural, equitable manner.  

and this made me incredibly sad because i like hanging out with the "nobodies," as dumb as that sounds. i feel like i would have an extremely limited view of the world if i couldn't just have a conversation with random people without them viewing my through a narrow lens.  it would hurt me to have to be cold to people and to avoid people.  i loved hanging out at leela because i met all kinds of random people and they were all so different.  upper-middle-class people are so predictable.  

and so after this guy left the bar, i went out to smoke a cigarette.  yes, another one.  and i had been going through a lot of hard times.  this was right before i was homeless myself.  i was desparately trying to find an apartment, but couldn't.  and i was feeling sorry for myself, wondering what i would do.  and this kid walks by with his parents.  he was clearly autistic or something, he was wearing a helmet.  i didn't know who they were or where they were going, but i could see that it was all his parents could do, to walk with him down the street.  and something about seeing this made me cry.  i felt like shit for feeling sorry about myself and at the same time, i felt the love from his parents.  i was trying to hide the fact that i was crying from them, but after they passed, i couldn't hold it back.  

and after that, i had to go back inside to hang out with my shitty manager who was just getting started with me at work.  it was like 2 or 3 weeks into the job.  and i had already been through a lot in my career. enough to know when someone is being a manipulative piece of shit, misrepresenting events, contorting situations, etc, etc.  i thought i had it bad before.  but i was wrong. this guy.  omfg. the. worst. ever.   if you were on his shit list -- and i was number one.  so i had to leave that situation outside and come back in to bullshit with this guy who i know is trying to stab my in the back.  all the while, knowing that i'm about to be homeless.

the guy at weedmaps?  the one that constantly called attention to the fact that i mistakenly typed "alot" all the time instead of "a lot".  yeh, that guy wasn't so bad.  i mean, he was more manipulative than that, but really, not so bad, aside from the fact that he got the ruby guys fired.  he was really just using any means necessary to chip away at other people.

and while in boulder, i had tons of chances, but my spirit had been pretty much broken.  i didn't have many close friends.  i felt abandoned and abused.  i was psychologically scarred.  so i gave up.  i had chances, people tried to reach out, but again, i was isolated.  i didn't have a car. everything was so much harder than it should have been.  and i guess i was just looking for the perfect thing.  personality flaw i guess.  i was never closer to suicide than when i lived in boulder.  never.  it plagued me.  while i was basically a pariah from the bedbugs.  while i was being emotionally abused at work in boulder.  after i got fired from builder and basically had "DONT HIRE THIS GUY" tattoo'd on my face.  immediately after that, i felt all the positive energy sucked out from around me.  there is really no explanation for it.  it was like the opposite of the story of palm sunday.  everywhere i went, there was negative energy.  it was like i had a piece of shit stuck on my foot that i didn't know about.  why the fuck did i move to boulder.  my life would be RADICALLY different if it weren't for that job. 

they say that negative experiences shape you.  yeh... but negative experiences WITH ABSOLUTELY NO MEANING can destroy you.  it's much harder to fight, when you don't understand what battle you are fighting.  when people seek to belittle you to sap you of your motivation.  i mean, if you're saying that negative experiences can help form someone ... yes, that's true to some extent, but they need to overcome something.  a puppy that is viciously abused .. can you say that they've "overcome" something?  

how does that look, when someone is in a situation they don't understand and just get emotionally pummelled.  at least someone in a PoW camp KNOWS that they are SURROUNDED by ENEMIES.  they know the game they are playing.  it might be 1000x more distressing than what i went through, but i struggle to find ANY meaning WHATSOEVER in my experiences in boudler.  and it's tough, when you're surrounded by people that you THINK you can TRUST.  you THINK they are your TEAMMATES.  and this is how it appears to everyone else.  but really, they're just corrosive, manipulative, toxic assholes.  and in boulder, at jumpcloud, it didn't start with everyone.  it was only the manager.  but he influenced the rest of the company to join in.  and all the while, the presented themselves to ME and to EVERYONE ELSE as being equitable and fair.  they presented themselves as being people that outside observers would see as someone i should trust.  when really, especially towards the end, i felt like i was in the most vile, most unfair bullshit i had ever experienced.  

when someone suffers like that, when it is a prolonged experience with lifelong psychological scars.  when someone ruminates over memories FOR YEARS.  when it causes significant depression and social anxiety, IT IS CALLED POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER.  no, i wasn't in a prison camp.  but i think the phrase my coworkers used specifically was "surviving two months in a dungeon." in passing of course.  it was one of the things they said behind my back, but in front of my face .... who the fuck says that?  i want to know.  who the fuck says something like that.  can you tell me? 

that's really what i'm mad about.  i don't give a shit about anything else that happened to me.  but that.  that right there.  that prolonged completely unnecessary BULLSHIT in BOULDER.  I"M STILL FUCKING PISSED ABOUT IT.  I_AM_FUCKING_PISSED_THAT_ANYONE_COULD_EVER_GO_THROUGH_THAT => and no one blinks an eye.  no one acknowledges it.  REALLLLLLYYYYY???  i could have sued them 7 different ways.  i still could.  i could sue that shitty startup out of all their fucking money.  ~30ish people would lose their jobs because they really don't have any money.  i know, because i've checked.  they have less than $15M.  ellen pao sued for $16M!! 

"but i would never sue."  that's what i said, isn't it?  you know what pisses me off?  when people design a strategy based on the assumption that the probability of a particular event is ZERO.  and now, why would these assholes at jumpcloud think that.  hmmmmmm....

but see?  i start thinking about this shit, i go on for hours.  i relive all these negative experiences, wondering what i could have done differently.  when the truth is, there is nothing i could have don differently at that job.  my fate was sealed from day 3, perhaps earlier.  that's what my asshole manager wanted and he worked diligently to get it. 

and i'm sorry to be so negative, but i've tried to write my own thoughts here as they come to me.  this is what is replaying in my mind.  i feel like i've fucked everything up.  i want to fix this, but everything i do just makes things worse.  i guess the best thing i could do is to shut up and move on.

and really this is not the person i want to be, especially after everything that's been done for me.. i don't want to be so negative, but my life isn't exactly normal.  





