---
title: "I Ching: "
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- pic of yumeko getting blasted by wind
- “soon it will be cold enough to build a fire” as imagery behind
  Hexagram2 content. Describe the impact the weather has on
  anti/motion, and the spatial characteristics of large-scale behavior
  (esp seasonal/rhythmic)
- Oneirontology as the “octave” religious tradition. It completes #8
  of seven other major traditions, but should be resonant to all of
  them as though it is a octave distant from each. The idea that in a
  modernized world, each major belief system stakes its claims on a
  large set of information-bands
    - (a la each tradition has the equivalent of a major FCC license
      in terms of mindshare — large ranges of spectrum with momentum
      for social propagation, from an a spectral understanding of
      information)
    - This is what causes the metamodernist ebb and flow of
      diversification/evolution of belief systems:
        - when there are too many, few have the capacity to build
          institutions; thus people seek to create a religious/belief
          tradition to fill the gap and cause people to harmonize
          their behavior.
        - When the most distributed traditions monopolize their
          influence, it acts as a strong unconscious force compelling
          a new belief system or a schism.
        - This is mostly a trend of the past millennium. As we
          approached modernism and accelerate towards convergence,
          these trends will become prominent, but it seems that the
          architects of major world religions (in the generations
          after and before the founding) understood this concept of
          balance in the distribution of infospectral bands,
          especially in the context of eschatology.


- a perfect cover of the human condition.
  - you're randomly sampling from the human condition.

# The Paradox For The Intersection of East and West

### The Perfraction of Order Out of Chaos

*When* does order exist? Does it always exist: you must believe in the
existence of the #Noumenon. The obvious controversy of fallibility
that follows is part of the value of this paradox as a thought
experiment, but it is a paradox.

### The Paradox of the Undodgeable Bullet

God devises a bullet to kill a Man. He *is* incapable of dodging this
bullet. To live, Man must dodge it. God fires.

The man tries with all his essence. He *becomes* and he dodges. God
reaches for another bullet and He finds the same type of bullet is no
longer there.

God's creations have something, in time, that God lacked, but not
after Man produces it. This is the perfraction of form: order out of
chaos, but does order exist before it emerges from the simulation?

![]()

Does order exist before it emerges from the simulation? Did form exist
always? Did the Creative #Hexagram1 require the Receptive #Hexagram2
to for development of form?

### How Does One Address The Issue of Fallibility?

Or the issue where Man is set against God? Hundreds of ways, which is
its value. For one, perhaps this is not God, but the inherently
fallible Yaldaboath of the Gnostic PistisSophia who, as he's seen no
greater being, he delusionally presumes himself God and believes
himself the creator of the world. To me, this beings represesents the
as yet incomplete precipitation of knowledge about forms on earth.

### The One is the All, The All is the One

What does the Tai Ji, the Ridgepole, (imply) of forms in chaos, of
simulation and of the simulated? The Tai Ji would imply that all
exists within all, so the end result forms of the "simulation" must
exist within outside of the simulation from the start, perhaps as
rules encoded within its logic or perhaps all form is transcendantly a
part of all *realities* and *simulations*. The problem with this is
that the structure of the Tai Ji is intractibly, incomprehensibly
convoluted. No entity can ever entertain its spatial complexity, nor
possess the computational capacity to unroll that spatial complexity
into realized form, were it to possess a total comprehension of it. Or
perhaps the Tai Ji is a lattice, within which one finds all potential
convolutions of degrees of irrationality: E8 has the ability to
perfectly represent [eight degrees of phi](). The requirement of such
a lattice is to emulate *any* form with perfect precision -- no matter
how uncountably complex or algebraically irrational it may be -- and
to emulate systems of development of such precise form. This is where
Lie Algebra intersects with lattices such as E8: to emulate systems of
partial differential equations, where values at any time can be
described rationally or algebraically in terms of other values.

- evolutionary cycle of trancendance

  - in the terms of "the path to heaven via six steps/dragons, which
    are really six successive blasts of creative lightning through
    society"
    - lightning (though not connected to the I Ching's elemental
      thunder) is caused by a buildup of unrelieved energies. if these
      are energies of the Creative's unmanifested form, then they will
      be released into the Receptive similarly to bursts of lightning.
    - ![Picture of alchemic illustration with concentric realms]
    - as the unmanifested form builds up, it will suddenly pierce
      through into higher realms of the dualistically creative and
      receptive substrate of society.
    - despite lacking perfect equilibrium dynamics, models of social
      physics still must necessarily involve aspects resembling
      equilibrium of energies. since these energies are social or
      informational, they can be ephemeral and their accumulation may
      be transient. This is why the truly Creative must bleed, sweat
      and toil, without regard for social (disdain) for their
      creation. This is also why it's so easy to miss the Creative in
      their early stages: (the Hidden Dragon is not acknowledged, but
      works tirelessly)
  - how an individuals suffering and mistakes can be unleashed unto
    others, so they can avoid the same suffering/mistakes *without*
    the accumulation of doxastic leverage.
    - while the individual who suffered may remain excluded from the
      highest fruits of their torment, other people may benefit from
      their experience. in order for this to occur *communication* is
      required between the (tormented) and members of society.
    - there are alchemic measures in place that describe the
      proportion of benefit/transcendance which can be provided to
      society via relevatory suffering.
      - however, since the tormented person often becomes
        prohibitively burdened by the accumulation of doxastic
        leverage against them, then they may not end up with enough
        remaining sociophysical flexibility in the form of degrees of
        freedom in action/response.
      - (as you live), the consequences of your thoughts/words/action
        create karmic consequences. however, most of those karmic
        consequences are ascribed to your "identity" as others see it.
    - then, your degree of exploration through more painful planes
      becomes...
  - every time your projection of novel form projects into higher
    realms.
    - the potential for novel psychosocial form to disrupt higher
      realms of mind or society *is* the same as the potential for
      love to disrupt one's mind or society collectively. existing
      analytic models, which are like the substrate of manifested
      form, are thrown into chaos by unexpected novel form. the
      containing form of the Receptive Substrate must be completely
      reworked to contain or account in anticipation of potentially
      re-encountering the novel form. in the language of machine
      learning, this would mean adding new features to the model or
      reworking the model to add degrees of multi-linearity.
      otherwise, the model is not capable of classifying its
      experience.
    - one must

- does the above lead (at some line of the Creative as a Hexagram) to
  an experience of (constant) synchronicity by the Creative, evoked
  by, among other vectors, the recognition of form which was initially
  manifested by the Creative.
  - this idea would be very similar to Hindi ideas of enlightenment
    and transcendance where the mystic, whose journeys are bringing
    them closer to oneness, constantly sees their own sub-images
    within the forms they encounter in the world.
    - (gestault of symmetry)


#### Soon It Will Be Cold Enough To Build Fires

> For meditation, out of every album I know, this is the one that is
> consistently capable of getting me "there" ... I've had so many
> vivid experiences with this album playing near-mute on loop.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/alX16dIid9s" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

![Fractal Yin/Yang]()

![]()

- TODO: connect the seven Hermetic Principles to their mathematic
  counterparts (concisely given links to each)
- TODO: remove erroneous references to "epistemic"

- TODO: write out the lines/judgements of hex 1&2 (but no need to
  rearrange what i've done)
- TODO: include chinese phonetic pronunciation for names/etc
- TODO: citations on pagoda shinbashira's (also, correction to specify
  for their prevalance in Japan and later adoption date )

- TODO: confucian meaning of "the supreme man" and of "supreme"

#### Nearly all of china's watersheds converge in the north

- this results in the flow of agricultural commerce and power towards
  the east and north (converging in the Hai He and Yellow River
  basins)
  - to the south, the basins of the Yangtze and Guangzhou provided the
    geographic basis for alternative economic networks that, in
    ancient China, were difficult but profitable to control from the
    north. As dynasties rose and fell, there was consistent
    competition between northern and southern China, tending to favor
    the north.

#### Fording the Rivers

![China Watersheds](/img/posts/iching/china-watersheds.jpg)

The Book of Changes is one whose density of wisdom contained within
depends on the wisdom of the reader. Those more acquainted with the
profound will withdraw far more than the uninitiated, but I suspebnct
that, like many other great philosophical works, it is a book to
return to again and again. As a book of wisdom, the fruits of epiphany
it bears reflect the seeker's wisdom and mind.

At this point, I've written more pages about the I Ching than I've
read, ignoring Carl Jung's forward and Wilhelm's introduction. I
almost want to cry for not having read the I Ching before now, though
my own struggling to find the answers which it and the Tao Te Ching so
clearly lay out certainly magnify the appreciation I feel,
understanding vividly what lies behind Wilhelm's analysis of the
text. I am compelled by the same visceral magnetism that led to
Leibniz's connection with the text. It complemented his pursuits: not
merely those of binary numbers, but perhaps moreso that of
[Characteristica
Universalis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characteristica_universalis).
===========

- (decide whether to restructure or move: it opens too many bottles)
  - but a few ideas should be posed in the introduction.
    - oldest book, but most advanced cultural technology (possibly
      because of the absence of competing content)
      - what is a design imperative?
    - perhaps number the following in order of increasing unlikeliness
      that the assertions map to the originators' intentions,
      - but the critical thought experiment is reasoning about what it
        would take *if these were humanity's intentions moving
        forward*, especially if the development of Characteristica
        Universalis is necessary to our transcendence of Fermi's
        Paradox.
    - emphasize *pure* uniform random selection of 1/64 hexagrams
      - posit that hexagrams map to universal, uniform cover of human
        experience (or teleological structures)
        - an idea that, if it is to have any significance, necessarily
          depends on *uniform* random number selection
        - what's the point of a uniform distribution which is applied
          to an uneven cover? if what the uniformly sampled hexagrams
          map is not balanced, then uniform sampling shouldn't be
          considered so necessary to the divination. e.g. why would an
          inefficient process as yarrow sticks be the defacto method?
          it's slow!
      - for sociophysical systems where people are modeled as
        particles, the statistical mechanical implications of (PRNG +
        universal-cover)
        - (i.e. if you truly have these objects that guarantee or
          epitomize universal/uniform cover, then the selection of
          random numbers from a universal PRNG is just as useful for
          social physics as a truly random, statistical-mechanical
          selection of molecular configuration is for physics and
          thermodynamics. or, rather, I Ching viewed from this
          perspective is made immensely more fascinating)
        - the set of 64 hexagrams are states in a sociophysical
          state-machine (instantiated per-individual), where the
          mechanics of state-transitions are unknown
          - ideally, zooming to higher levels of society, if one
            follows the Yin Yang ideals of pure balance, then there
            should be a uniform distribution of sociophysical states
            per-individual
            - or, there is a lack of balance in the social
              distribution of per-particle state (which when valued as
              hexagrams, are perhaps stand-in approximations for
              something intractibly more complex -- to answer this is
              to answer: why 64 and not 128 or 256? to balance
              complexity).
      - but the implications of this social dimension of I Ching --
        what are the valuations of other social particles? and how
        does it relate to balance? -- offer mesmerizing depth the
        (individuated) I Ching reading, already profound.

- if there is such precise order (via universal/uniform cover of
  interwoven archetypes of teleology/narrative), then this precise
  order should have some kind of semantic fingerprint, which may be
  possible to see with computational linguistics
  - it would require computing semantic networks representing ancient
    chinese and it's mapping to cultural universals. if it is a
    characteristica universalis, then residue from the underlying
    structure should be possible to detect (though not in any
    definitive way)

#### The iPhone's Single Button, An Over-arching, Design Imperative

- in this section: focus on how I Ching differs from Tarot or other
  methods of divination. (and perhaps move most of this to a footnote)
- thus far, what i know about the apparent design imperatives
  motivating the I Ching is like understanding *why* Apple wanted the
  iPhone to have a single button while having limited knowledge of its
  software & hardware design.
  - i.e. Steve Jobs wanted a single-button iPhone design for two
    reasons: (1) it was accessible for users & developers, (2) it was
    the *only* such *patentable* mobile phone interface that could not
    be copied. as the single-button design was the *zenith* of
    simplicity for potential touchscreen, smartphone designs,
    competitors could not copy it's design without apple's patent.
    - other multi-button designs were not patentable, as they were not
      a unique innovation: there is only ONE *most simple* conception,
      therefore it is a protectable, patent (at least it was for as
      long as it needed to be enforcable). (needs source)
  - so, understanding this second benefit to a single-button design
    can cut away so

####

- While Egyptian pyramids represented in terms of mastery over the
  material, I Ching represents for the East an equivalent testament to
  greatness in engineering metaphysical/epistemological systems.
  - Given that this is humanity's *earliest book to exist into our
    era*, trying to comprehend the ingenuity that motivated design
    imperatives of (limit to: random number selection to a universal
    cover of human experience), is no different than trying to
    comprehend how 100-ton stones were moved and arranged by the
    thousands into the shape of pyramids on the Nile.

  - if it really was an intentional stab at *Characteristica
    Universalis*.... while intending to encode a set of ideas which
    uniformly cover the interweaving narrative-archetypes of human
    experience ...
    - i still have no idea where to start to begin collecting that
      kind of data ... with computers ... with wikipedia at my
      fingertips. it's monumental to consider that groups of people
      were even capable of conceptualizing it.
    - with every great monumental work, especially those acquiring
      mystery through the ages ... two questions beg to be answered:
      how? and why?
      - (answering the latter requires insight into sociocultural
        forces that could possibly motivate dreaming the monumental).

- they didn't just go with physical random (i.e. shuffling cards,
  throwing dice, etc)
  - they didn't just go with ...
  - they had to have logical random with modular arithemetic to
    balance out the distribution ... thus maximizing uniformity
  - as an added bonus, the yarrow stalks method is self-checking as
    you go along. if you get a single step wrong or out of place, you
    can't simply bullshit your way through it, since the counts must
    be consistent (and while counting, the diviner's mind is occupied,
    but the minds of the querents are free to check the simple counts
    of yarrow stalks, which must add up)

- already, by 400 B.C., the earliest copies of the text are almost
  entirely consistent (i think?)
  - but that consistency in copied texts is critical


####

Life, in terms of I Ching, is a collection of sociophysical
circumstances relevant to the querent who seeks the Oracle. But one
who only (looks for) the Hexagrams when they query the Oracle misses
the book's wisdom as manfested within and throughout all sociophysical
interactions. To this any philosopher or theologian could say: "But
the Book of Changes as a book of wisdom is well studied: it is like no
other precipitation of trans-generational wisdom." Despite its status
as the *oldest* such book of wisdom, any self-respecting intellectual
should feel obligated to test the bounds of all such claims of
wisdom-traditions, especially when they are comparative.

To this, I posit: the I Ching is no simple artifact of wisdom
traditions. Not only is this book the earliest such remnant of
irrational anti-intellectual fervor -- itself a seemingly global
pandemic that manifested with the Library's repeated burning in
Alexandria and also in China's complementary events, [焚書坑
儒
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_books_and_burying_of_scholars)
in 213 BCE -- but the I Ching represents humanity's zenith thus far in
pursuit towards the semioteleological ideal of Characteristica
Universalis.

- clarify the abstainment from teleonomic (or ... don't)
  - and definition/usage of teleo-semiome, a semiome of encoded
    information structures whose interrelationships are perceived to
    be teleological, ...
    - a teleo-semiomic program is a kind of memetic program, where
      informational structures are expressed, reexpressed, etc.

- narreme
- teleme, teleome, teleomic
- seme, sememe, semantic

- for these purposes, that entities need sentience or the ability to
  reason is not necessary (that, is, this is teleonomy)
  - there are several structures in a memetic program which mirror the
    state-compartmentalization structures of the nucleus, the cell,
    the transcriptome, etc.
    - these are thoughts, speech, actions. each require executing
      content coded into a memetic or teleosemiotic program, but the
      causal implications of thought (as mental expression of meme)
      are compartmentalized to the mind
      - this is similar to nuclear compartmentalization of
        RNA-transcription artifacts (mRNA, lnRNA, etc), whose
        biophysical causal implications are bound to the cell's
        nucleus.
      - implications of speech are similarly compartmentalized.

- at the most fundamental levels of structural analysis, the I Ching's
  contents, but particularly each hexagram's encoded data (primarily
  semiotic/semantic) can be transcoded into units of teleology,
  narratology, ...
  - but the I Ching, as both divination and a wisdom tradition, also
    encodes within itself and its Ten Wings,
    - "pragmatic guidelines"
    - [auto-hermeneutic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermeneutics)
      tools (for the interpretation of the text and the practice.)

- what distinguishes it among bibliomancy and divination methods are
  the (quantity and qualities of) (the degree of) indexed structure
  layered over top of the text.
  - "balance" - semiotic uniformity of the teleosemiotic cover
  - "completeness" - semiotic universiality of the cover
  - symmetry
  - simplicity
  - systemitization
  - but, particularly, the intentionality to optimize the above for
    the purpose of creating a system of hexagrams to map to a
    uniform/universal cover of human experience.
    - without the universiality and uniformity, the degree of
      sophistication in selecting a purely logical protocol for random
      number selection would not justify its inefficiency.

- Wherefore biophysical programs, a genome is (a compendium of coded
  values) to be executed leveraging enthalphy to counteract chaos,
  - a teleosemiome is a collection of encoded information structures,
    - need to connect definition to the teleological ideal of
      perceived causes/associations of phenomena, as ascribed to
      purposes and association to end-goals/values
  - similarly (to genomic data) it is compressed, disordered and
    without need for the guarantees of consistency or decideability of
    deterministic programs
    - teleology connects perceived phenomena
      - the incentivization of process-engagement

    teleologically decoupled from )

==========
- (remove)
- The I Ching is a sociophysical analogy to parallel the form of the
  genome, a biophysical program of statistics.
  - episteminomic program, where forms from an episteminome are
    expressed.
  - (improve delivery of this idea; and briefly justify the need to
    invoke a concept with a new name.)
  - what is so significant about its configuration as an episteminomic
  - if (episteme =~ genome) then epistemic program
    - if (episteme =~ gene) then epistem-omic program
    - it it seems (epistemic structure =~ gene) and (episteme =~
      genome) in which case i need to clarify my denotation of
      episteme and epistemic structure.
      - as well as my holonic conception of epistemic structures

- (move)
- there is no universal truth except the holonic symmetry of the Tao
  - therefore, excepting the singular epistemic structure of the
    necessarily (super-symmetric) holon, which equates to the Tai
    Chi's Ridgepole and it's relation to all epistemic structures, all
    knowledge is relative to all other knowledge.
  - (this is all unfortunately necessary because *the episteme* can by
    definition only include *knowledge* that has been verified as true
    - or, the episteme, is surrounded by one's boundary for
      accepting/rejecting information as *true* knowledge
    - see Kant's [analytic/synthetic distinction]()
      - i intend to discuss mostly synthetic, a priori propositions
        (or rather, to connect all knowledge, analytic/synthetic &
        a-priori/a-postieri, with that of an all-enveloping boundary
        of synthetic, a priori knowledge. it is this boundary that our
        awareness of the world maps into a pre-existing, metaphysical
        structure)

========

- This pursuit was facilitated by (or facilitated... more likely)
  early China's dedication towards a systematically, metaphysical
  principles-first approach to language itself. This it miraculously
  perpetuated through the design imperatives of its logosyllabic
  writing system -- itself further crystallizing language by generally
  slowing linguistic evolution, particularly that of morphemes.

- The I Ching, or the proto-literary system of metaphysical archetypes
  that its literary creation epitomized, was at first (a prime
  facilitator) towards the establishment of (...design motifs of
  ..). The development of the I Ching as an epistemological (lingua
  franca) -- the set of epistemic structures to be the primary
  language of ideas through which other discourse would be structured
  --

- this was likely accomplished over the course of a millenia before a
  [most] final form of the I Ching was produced.
  - If such grandstanding & hand-waving be believed -- then this would
    have been accomplished by centralizing debate around which core
    epistemic structures would be elected to be considered most core
    as to be included within the 64 hexagrams.
  - That is, Eastern philosophy underwent an extended incubation
    period, ending by at most 500 B.C. This period of *confederated,
    decentralized election* would have lasted as long as 2,000 years,
    where the crystallization of epistemic forms encoded as hexagrams
    and lines would have only emerged in the final centuries of this
    (incubation).

None of this is to say that such a protracted programme of
epistemological evolution was initially conscious or ever intentially
conceived as such until its final convergence. Rather, just like how
idiosyncracies of geography, among other hands of the Unconscious,
drove the Grecian archipelagos to shape Western epistemological
primatives and divine its taxonomy of Western governance models by
encouraging experimentation -- so, too, must similar hands of the
Unconscious have given form to the (nascent) roots of Eastern
philosophy and epistemology. (tie up how this circumvents the need for
conscious ideation/intention: particularly, what are the geographical
idiosyncracies for the East)

- So, forces emanating from the Unconscious, like the hands of some
  divine potter, shaped humanities destiny. These unconscious forces
  compelling sociophysical outcomes are not necessarily of the
  collective; such forces act continuously *before emergence of
  collective* to conceptualize the conscious or to remain blindly
  non-perceptive of the unconscious.

That both the West and the East emerged as they did, competing among
other traditions -- was this a miraculous accident? Or does the
emergence of intelligent life -- transiently pre-occupied with
sufficient illusion of self as to guarantee temporary sociocultural
isolation tend -- (sufficient) to cause Western and Eastern
conceptions of philosophy to root themselves spatially in every such
world giving rise to intelligence? That is, are Western and Eastern
philsophical configurations merely philosophy-configuration
archetypes? I tend to believe that the metaphysics of potential
epistemological conceptions nearly guarentees that the Eastern and
Western divide in philosophy results moreso from the potential for
both Eastern and Western conceptions to emerge simultaneously,
provoking philosophical thought-leaders to choose between design
imperatives of epistemy and language, whereof tradition becomes
crystallized upon its perpetuation in written language. It's very
likely that such metaphysic conceptions, epistemic conceptions that
became foundational throughout the whole of human thought were
reconceived, time and time again from the end of the Pleistocene
through the dawning Holocene.


- TODO: eliminate need to refer ambiguously to graphemics/morphemics
  to
- emerging as graphemic and morphemic motifs that should be most
  prominent in the most frequently utilized Chinese morphemes.
  - While *specifically how* these design imperatives can be seen in
    graphemes and morphemes is a pursuit of interpretive linguistics
    best left to *actual* experts in early evolutionary trends of East
    Asian languages, the (critical takeaway here) is that the I Ching
    itself symbolizes the strong intent for a principles-first
    approach to epistemologically identifying the *structure of ideas*
    that should underly language and the language of ideas within
    which early philosophical literary pursuits would epistemically
    structure itself.

- (Reference Zipf's Distribution and cultural universals)



public works of sorts, was a prime facilitator work) of

# Consulting the Oracle

### "I Ching, What Is Missing From My Article on I Ching?"

[Hexagram 41: Decease]() and my received [Changing Hexagram 59:
Dispersion (Dissolution)]() exhibit intimate connections, with respect
to the aggregation and diffusion of influence, more descriptively
noted as a higher-order energy. Yet, with respect to my query, to what
higher-order energies does the I Ching intend to draw our attention
to?

To be later clarified in detail, whereas the I Ching's selection of
the Hexagram is evenly distributed with `p(e) = 1/64`, the probability
of the Changing Hexagram, given some Hexagram is never evenly
distributed. The selection of Changing Hexagram, when readings are
conducted with Yarrow Sticks, is biased towards negative Yin energies:
we are to understand this in context with the Judgements of both and,
as the superior men, agents through which the I Ching operates, are
compelled seek balance of Yin and Yang.

- where was I, when I consulted the I Ching?
  - what did I think my article was missing?
  - what was emphasized?
  - What was the state? What is the state of changing? What is the
    state of the reader? What is the state of change necessary to my
    intended audience? What did the I Ching represent as the state and
    the state of changing? How may I intepret the course necessary to
    bringing about change (that brings) my content into balance of Yin
    and Yang?
    - from here, segue into a discussion on Yin and Yang.
    - finish interpretation of what was missing at the end?

- todo: link Nana Akosua's playlist

### Interpretation: Hexagram 41 Changing Into Hexagram 59

- what does this reading mean, in this context?
  - the two concepts are intimately linked. The image of the first
    exemplifies the collection of higher-order energies, whereas the
    second images exemplifies the transmutation of sociophysical
    energies -- while for sociophysical games emphasizing the
    (sacred-ization of values) to compel continuous accumulation,
    despite the simultaneous need for continious diffusion.

- the diffusion of my energies into my writing: the decrease of my
  mountain's lake for the fulfillment of my reader's lake; that my
  effects might not have been wrought in vain, but be transmogrified
  into the minds, motivations and actions of my readers towards the
  awakening of all; that knowledge of the Creative and the Receptive,
  of Heaven manifesting form on Earth, and of Yin and Yang might
  itself take form and transform society; that regardless of the
  material bounds of self, the Creative might find its season of
  action to manifest throughout society for fulfilling awakening of
  many who propate such form before the frost of technocultural ice we
  all feel underfoot freezes us into the winter of singularly
  determined trajectory of fate, whose sociophysical momentum is
  greater than any individual could hope to alter.
  - indeed, the end of the section on 41 indicates this, almost
    exactly (TODO: quote)


- I Ching, what is missing from my article? The I Ching wishes my
  readers to become aware of the concept of sociophysical energies. As
  it relates to the images of Decrease and Dispersion, this knowledge
  was not emphasized in the original discussion on the Creative and
  the Receptive,
  - how does the content on Astrology (as pattern of archetypes for
    the sociological evokation of psychosocial archetypes that enable
    socioevolution of psychology) & I Ching (as universal, uniform
    cover of semioteleological narrative archtypes, effective for the
    kind of ideas on divination presented in the aeon article?)

- According to tradition surrounding readings with changing hexagrams
  then, from Hexagram 41, lines one and five should be emphasized and,
  from Hexagram 59, lines two, three, four and six should be
  emphasized.
  - However, whenever I find myself faced challenged to interpret
    meaning or the course of action, I always consider the (powerset
    of ... all interpretations)
  - in this manner, the reading means:
    -

# Hexagram 41: Decease

#### The Image

> At the foot of the mountain, the lake:
>
> The image of **Decrease**.
>
> Thus the superior man controls his anger
>
> And restrains his instincts.

Understanding the relationship between the inner trigram 兌（澤: lake）
and the outer 艮（山: mountain）in terms of the harmonies of natural
phenomena is critical to understanding the implicit meaning behind
this hexagram. Envision a mountain, whose tributaries collect in a
natural lake at high elevations. The depth of such lakes depends on
the proportions of inflow and outflow; its hydrodynamics.

In fact, the word 電池 (denchi) for "electric battery" in Chinese,
Japanese *and* Korean is created by combining the graphemes for
Electricity, 電 den, and Pond, 池 chi. Thus, in asian languages,
concept of a lake is almost equivalent to a battery in Asian
Languages. Therefore, quite thoroughly, asian cultures understand
nature's contributions to lakes and ponds as collecting the aqueous
higher-order energy-type of collected water into a battery.
Westerner's lacking such understanding can be seen in the ignorance of
importance of the Ogalala aquifer to the Great Plains capacity to
produce grain. A depletion of this aquifer contributed to the dryness
that produced the Dust Bowl that exacerbated the Great
Depression. [^ogalala-aquifer]

#### 1st Line

> *Nine at the beginning means:*
>
> Going quickly when one's tasks are finished
>
> Is without blame.
>
> But one must reflect on how much one may decrease others.

- social interdependency

#### 2nd Line

> *Nine in the second place means:*
>
> Perseverence furthers.
>
> To undertake something brings misfortune.
>
> Without decreasing oneself,
>
> One is able to bring increase to others.

(On page 259), Shou Kua's Discussion of the Trigrams notes "The
Receptive means the earth. It takes care that all creatures are
nourished. Therefore, it is said: 'He causes them to serve one another
in the sign of the Receptive'."

- becoming aware of other's needs [... is necessary for
  specialization to accomplish]
  - specialization allows groups of people to accomplish more than
    simply a sum of their productive output.

- again, social interdependency.

#### 3rd Line

> &#9633; *Nine in the third place means:*
>
> When three people journey together,
>
> Their number decreases by one.
>
> When one man journeys alone,
>
> He finds a companion.

#### 4th Line

> *Six in the fourth place means:*
>
> If a man decreases his faults,
>
> It makes the other hasten to come and rejoice.
>
> No Blame.

#### 5th Line

> &#9711; *Six in the second place means:*
>
> Someone does indeed increase him.
>
> Ten pairs of tortoises cannot oppose it.
>
> Supreme good fortune.

#### 6th Line

> &#9633; *Nine at the top means:*
>
> If one is increased without depriving others,
>
> There is no blame.
>
> Perseverance brings good fortune.
>
> If furthers one to undertake something
>
> One obtains servants
>
> But no longer has a separate home.

#### The Judgement

> **Decrease** combined with sincerity
>
> Brings about supreme good fortune
>
> Without blame.
>
> One may be persevering in this.
>
> It furthers one to undertake something.
>
> How is this to be carried out?
>
> One may use two small bowls for the sacrifice.

### Macrocosmic and Microcosmic Dynamics of Social Valence

The top four lines of Hexagram 41 clarify the context of the the I
Ching's bottom two lines. In summary, this sociophysical understanding
clarifies the intent of the judgement and images. The I Ching has
spoken of Hexagram to draw our attention to the state of affairs,
where the Judgement intends to highlight the significance of our
choices with regard to that state.


### Hexagram 59: Dispersion

#### The Image

> The wind drives over the water:
>
> The image of **Dispersion**.
>
> Thus the kings of old sacrificed to the Lord
>
> And built temples.

Analogous to higher-order energies, physical energy too accumulates
and disperses itself through transduction between forms via myriad
transitions. Thus, in the fashion of the kings, it is wise to
recognize multifarious myriads of sociophysical mechanics, as it
relates to the diffusion of information. To display reverence
something is to infuse energy into the sacred. What is sacred? By
successfully propagating information that results in the sociophysical
establishment of the sacred, i.e. the *higher*, one has propagated
values that affect moral consequences. In doing so, the sacred compels
all who revere it to be magnetically attracted. The consequences to
sociophysical systems, which are inherently statistical, one *moors*
the probabilities of events and event-types such that the spectral
dynamics guarantee harmony among the agents in sociophysical systems
with whom these moral systems or values system resonate.

To build a temple is to construct a physical manifestation of the
sacred.  Architecture was the first such phenomena whereby man
transformed their environment. Stone masonry then embodied existing
understanding of phenomena and values systems into form which caused
the constant evokation of ideals associated with temples, shrines and
various buildings in all who laid eyes, whether the associated
evocation was sacred ideal or pragmatic phenonemological awareness.

#### 1st Line

> Six at the beginning means:
>
> He brings help with the strength of a horse.
>
> Good fortune.

Like a surfer who allows the waves to carry him, the supreme man so
rides on the mechanics of sociophysical waves. This always brings a
better fortune. Whereas sociophysical systems do not exhibit perfect
equilibrium, there are still accumulations of higher-order energies;
these energies can and must be expended, but to do so, one must first
to recognize what one is mechanically connected to.

The Creative is symbolized as a animal though the horse, which to me,
symbolizes the animal most suited as a vehicle of communication.  In
ancient China and around the Old World, whenever information was to be
projected most quickly, it was accompanied by a horse. The number of
horsed at one's disposal pared your quantity of bandwidth for
information diffusion. Wilhem notes that "disunion should be overcome
at the outset, before it has become complete." and "when hidden
divergences in temper make themselves felt and lead to mutual
misunderstandings ..." that such contrary tension should be dispelled
before it grows. One does so by leveraging social networks for
communication. In ancient China, your ability to project and react to
consensus of information depended access to horses or, as a commoner,
being socially adjacent to such access.

#### 2nd Line

> &#9633; Nine in the second place means:
>
> At the dissolution
>
> He hurries to that which supports him.
>
> Remorse disappears.

Informing your action with fresh sources and seeking constant
consensus to discard the stale are the keys to avoiding inadvertant
dispersion of resources. Proficiency here renders moot the causes of
remorse.

In the course of setting higher-order energies to action, one must
dissolve the resources that one has. When applying transmuted
energies, if one does not also recognize the first-order and
second-order consequences of doing so, then one will disperse his
energies without gaining the accumulated higher-order energies
transmutations, which will be in alternative form. If one cannot
recognize these or does not acknowledge them, he cannot predict the
course of such first-order and second-order consequences. With wisdom
and awareness of the causal chain of consequences set in motion with
the dispersion of information and energies, then one can act to ensure
that the future's energies are secure. If one's foodstocks are
unwisely spent in winter without ensuring the course of consumption
through the next harvest, one will not have the threshold of resources
and energies required to compel action through the implications of
phenomena with rhythmic mechanics and seasonal dynamics.

#### 3rd Line

> Six in the third place means:
>
> He dissolves his self. No Remorse.

#### 4th Line

> &#9633; Six in the fourth place means:
>
> He dissolves his self from his group.
>
> Supreme fortune.
>
> Dispersion leads in turn to accumulation.
>
> This is something that ordinary men do not think of.

The one is the all; the all is the one. The true self resolves in the
interface between one and all. if one projects his forms through is
group, there is no oneness in the limits of material self.  The
ordinary cannot see beyond these confines of self. Here, the supreme
acts to understand the accumulation accumulated through the diffusion
of energies through the group. He does not merely see what he
immediately controls, but acts with understanding that sociophysical
mechanics will expound his will through the actions of others. Only in
this way can we hope to act with true freedom from self.

#### 5th Line

> &#9711; Nine in the fifth place means:
>
> His loud cries are as dissolving as sweat.
>
> Dissolution! A king abides without blame.

The king, or the man whose intuition exemplifies the supreme does not
pause to concern himself with the past, but projects his will through
his connections such that by channeling higher-order energies, the
group accumulates; and thereby his self.

#### 6th Line

> Nine at the top means:
>
> He dissolves his blood.
>
> Departing, keeping at a distance, going out,
>
> Is without blame.

- Explain the idea of blood, especially to Eastern cultures? Explain
  the importance of this notion.
  - how does the dissolution of blood lead to departing while keeping
    at a distance, both enabling a "going out" and an aversion to
    blame. Its critical to understand this as a list of four things,
    while

#### The Judgement

> **Dispersion**. Success.
>
> The king approaches his temple.
>
> It furthers one to cross the great water.
>
> Perseverance furthers.


- segue into a discussion on:
  - ideas worth revering (connection to Hexagram 16: Enthusiasm)
  - the construction of temples to bring about resonance of value
    systems
  - the design and interstruction of social edifaces in music to evoke
    the resonance of particular values over others.

![Handdrawn Chart of the 64 Hexagram]()

Show in the messy notes to the right: Taiji or Tai Chi means,
literally, the Great Ridgepole. For a truss-style roof, a ridgepole is
the central beam to which rafters connect. Together, these frame the
support structure for the roof rafters, which themselves can be
horizontally fixed in place by various styles of
[purlins](https://en.wikipedia.com/wiki/Purlin). However, the roof
supports itself through an implicit arch, which directs the stresses
inward into the ridgepole, which acts as a conduit.

In traditional Japanese building frames, these structures are all
built without nails, using intricate joints carved with ancient
[Japanese Woodworking techniques](). These joints are more than
sufficient, allowing the building structures to scale larger than
expected, since wood without nails....

- link video
- which is (the name of the) large beam used in most traditional-style
  houses in Asia and especially Japan.

棟木 (munagi)

棟上げ式 (muneageshiki)

真柱 (shinbashira)

- TODO: move to footnotes: [A House Without
Nails](https://www.popularmechanics.com/home/outdoor-projects/how-to/a1506/4213580/)

There is also a similar central supporting beam found in #Pagoda
design. That this translation simultaneously points to the foundations
of Eastern philosophy as well as a central supporting element in
Eastern masonry is far more than a simple metaphor: this forms a
central supporting feature in Taoist philosophy after the development
of Taiji. The Great Ridgepole frames (everything) and (acts as a
similar conduit for challenges).

#### In Response To Ta Chuan, The Great Treatise, Wilhem Says (p. 281)

> "... experience teaches that at the dawn of consciousness one stands
> already inclosed within definite, prepotent systems of
> relationships. The problem then is to choose one's frame of
> reference so that it coincides with the point of reference for
> cosmic events... Obviously the premise for such a decision is the
> belief that in the last analysis the world is a system of
> homogeneous relationships -- that **it is a cosmos, not a chaos. This
> belief is the foundation of Chinese philosophy, as of all
> philosophy. The ultimate frame of reference for all that changes is
> the nonchanging.**"

Neat trivia about a Pagoda’s central beam: it gives earthquake
resistance *while* being free-standing — i.e. you can push hard on the
vertical beam in a pagoda and it will move. Why?  Because of how the
delays in mechanical movement, in combination with the wood’s
proportions and relative flexibility, allow it to absorb tectonic
fluctuations from an earthquake. It is mechanically #Harmonic in how
it dissipates fluctuations, allowing it to withstand far more than the
average person assumes of wood. This is why buildings in Asia were far
taller than in Europe throughout history, until before the
introduction of steel.

- does the pagoda-type with an odd number of floors require it to
  balance out the vibrations?

- As temples, do pagodas symbolize a connection between Heaven and
  Earth?
  - How then does the symbolism of the Ridgepole and the protection it
    provides against Earth's tectonic force propound the (intersection
    of these sets of symbols)

  - along the Ring of Fire, designing high buildings that epitomize
    connection to the sacred was more difficult. Pyramids and
    ziggurats don't evenly distribute stresses associated with
    earthquakes; these stresses are localized and variable in
    orientation.
    - if humanity archetypically reveres high places and high edifaces
      as sacred, then overcoming this obstacle was perhaps conceived
      as symbolic in and of itself.

#### And also, just afterwards:

> "These two cardinal principles of all existence [heaven above and
> earth below] are then symbolized in the two fundamental hexagrams of
> the Book of Changes, The Creative and The Receptive. **In the last
> analysis, this cannot be called a dualism. The two principles are
> united by a relation based on homogeneity; they do not combat but
> complement each other.** *The difference in level creates a potential,
> as it were, by a virtue of which movement and living expression of
> energy become possible.*"

In my understanding, this potential that stratifies values, acts as a
pseudocausal field, through which heaven projects its forms onto
manifestations of awareness who perceive value and are capable of
increasingly complex conceptualization. By analogy, this field is
similar in nature to the effect of mass on the field of gravity, but
instantialized individually for each entity. When the values systems
of entities are harmonized, they begin to gravitate along similarly
oriented field potentials, towards the celestial above and the
material below.

By harmonically aligning socioepistemic structures distributed
throughout social agents, these temples symbolize religion's capacity
to attune these entities' value systems and their fields converge,
becoming more coherent. For a pagoda's central beam, its resilience in
insulating the edifice against tectonic fluctuations protects this
nexus connecting heaven and earth. This yields a new layer of meaning.

- segue discussing the I Ching: mention the influence/purpose of The
  Creative and Receptive, in relation to socioepeistemic structures,
  their replication, harmonization, stratification
  - allude to GIF of conway's game of life as a visualization of
    replication of socioepistemic structures.
    - (increasing population density tends to expand geosocial flux of
      information) ... (which correlates to) these structures tending
      to arise more numerously ... increasing complexity, accelerating
      rates of evolution and therefore requiring adaption by
      sophisication
    -

![Complete Graphs](/img/posts/iching/complete-graphs.png)

![Yarrow Stick Changing Probabilities]()

- TODO: perhaps move this section to the end (i don't want to turn off
  readers by mentioning Graph Theory right off the bat.)
- To understand the motivation behind changing lines, consider the
  maximal and minimal probabilities of a complete change from one
  hexagram into another, which is found in hexagrams 1 and 2: The
  Creative and The Receptive. With the original Yarrow sticks method:
  the probabilities of sampling a nine `p(9) = 1/16` where Yin changes
  into Yang and `p(6) = 3/16` where Yang changes into Yin. Consider a
  complete graph of 64 nodes that connects all hexagrams by edges to
  all other hexagrams with one additional representing each unchanging
  hexagram, which connects each node to itself. Then, with six lines
  of Yang given to The Creative, if you consider all of its 63
  changing hexagrams, it has the most maximal sum of probabilities of
  all Hexagrams. Further, The Creative's potential to change into its
  opposite hexagram is the most likely such change to occur for all
  hexagrams. The hexagram least likely to change is The Receptive.
  - Therefore, the hexagram representing pure Yang will always prevail
    over the hexagram of pure Yang: Heaven remains unmoved by
    Earth. (NOPE)
  - For any hexagram, only one in eight of its Yin lines will be nines
    and contribute to the changed hexagram, whereas nearly one in two
    Yang lines will do the same.
  - After the Yarrow method was popularized, its users perhaps noticed
    that there was an opportunity to emphasize the special occurance
    of sixes and nines, since their probability weights did not affect
    the perfect harmony of Yin and Yang's distribution. Once the
    possibility of changing lines was considered, this left two
    options for determining which would be associated to a Yin change
    and which would be associated to a Yang change.
    - However, if the assignment of Yin and Yang to eight/nine and
      symbolically emphasizes the precedence of

- explain that inbound edge probabilities determine the probability of
  the changed hexagram.
- probabilities for outbound edges from each node will always sum to
  one, whereas probabilities for inbound edges to each node do not sum
  to one. yet, because of the former constraint, the probabilities of
  inbound edges must have balance. whereas the hexagrams read before
  changing lines are considered are evenly sampled, the changing
  hexagrams reflect the statistical distortion induced by the
  disparity in inbound & outbound edge probability sums.
  - This disparity is correlated to Yin and Yang, tending to evoke
    changed hexagrams that have a greater number of Yin lines, given
    the relative probabilities of inbound edges. This would appear to
    favor Yin, but if the I Ching speaks to man through random events,
    whose significance is perhaps influenced by some metaphysical
    agency, then conceivably it seeks to correct the balance from Yin
    to Yang: to intervene using man to transform Earth into Heaven. Or
    perhaps the intent of whoever initiated the custom of changing
    lines wanted to favor Yin so that those using the Book of Changes
    would tend to enact transformation skewed towards Yang.

- (segue into a discussion on how the) I Ching performed a
  (socioevolutionary) function by (emphasizing) a statistical system whose
  probabilities were connected to the symbolic implications implied by
  those events, especially for changing hexagrams.
  - if you couldn't understand the symbolism motivating the assignment
    of six to Yin and nine to Yang, then you likely didn't understand
    the significance of the impact that values of `1/16` and `3/16`
    have on influencing the likelihood of transitions to changing
    hexagrams.
    - similarly, if you weren't proficient at navigating changing
      hexagrams or couldn't demonstrate awareness of when the pair of
      hexagrams truly was rare, then it meant you probably couldn't
      display an authentic appreciation of the symbolism implied by
      readings, which is connected to intuition of the underlying
      statistics.
    - in this way, I Ching doubles as divination for counselors to
      advise rulers, but also as [dowsing]() for rulers to select
      counselors who understand statistics. after all, who can
      honestly foretell the future that doesn't have intuition for
      statistics.


=====

# [Hexagram 1: The Creative]()

The Creative is about Time, where the Receptive is about its
complement of space. Wherever you find time and space in the
mathematical description of a problem, you have a spectral domain and
a temporal domain, both with fluctuations over time.
Counterintuitively, it is the spectral domain that is most relevant to
the Creative; in this domain the phenomena of vibration and resonance
are more clearly scene. Both concern the emergence of form. The
Receptive instead concerns the temporal domain, which plots space or
change in space with respect to time.

When a song is playing through speakers, the audio signal travels
through the electronic circuits and causes the speaker cone to move
continuously. However, if you analyze the audio spectrum of the song
when it was recorded and when you hear it playing, it is almost
exactly the same spectrum, despite many transformations along the
way. To the disparity of the wallets of many audiophiles, there is no
way to recreate an perfectly ideal emission of the audio
recording. The recorded sounds and spectral are the infinitely distant
forms of the Creative, which all the most expensive audio equipment
can never perfectly reproduce.

If you wanted a physical model to predict the average motion of air
when playing the the song in an environment, more *or less* isolated
from noise, then understanding the spectral content of the forms
recorded by the Creative is essential. To predict the chaos of
sociophysical systems on Earth, then for the same reason knowing the
essence of form as it exists in Heaven is indispensable, however
aeternally distant such a metaphysical realm may be.

While vibrations emanate from the creative reservoir of Heaven, they
must have a substrate capable of vibration. The substrate is matter,
which requires space, and the phenomenon of vibration requires
time. Still, though spectral and temporal domains emerge in all
phenomena that exhibit time and space, the emergence of the spectral
domain does not require space as we know it. It requires merely
discrete topology to emerge, which through [Discrete Exterior
Calculus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete_exterior_calculus)
can extend to continuous spaces seen in the physical world. It is in
these inherently *more primitave* discrete topologies where the
implications of spectral graph theory can help model epistemic
structures. These forms exist independent of their physically
manifested, *approximate* counterparts.

The physical world, as the speed of communication increases, reduces
the causal friction that space exerts on matter's resistence to the
influence of time. This spatiotemporal potential for matter to lag
behind in the emergence of form drives an illusion of separation we
conceive between the physical and the metaphysical. As this friction
that enables matter to resist the action of the metaphysical fades
away, our world gives way to exponential precipitation of
informational forms. So then, as these dynamics escalate with, then
never before has it been more critical to understand the spectral
phenomonena interlinking epistemic structures, whether manifested on
earth or existing purely in the aeternal metaphysical. Each epistemic
structure's spectrum is a fingerprint for vibration, but all
structures can be stratified along their spectral similarities.

#### Wilhem notes (about the dragon & lighting)

> ""

### Where Do The Greatest Thunderbolts Emerge From?

Do the largest lightning strikes emerge from stormclouds low to the
ground? Are they rare? Will you see more lightning strikes when a
storm's clouds are looming almost out of sight or are turbulently
rolling just overhead?

Where does lightning strike? Unless you survey cloud's variations in
elevation, then even guessing where lightining will bolt defies
apprehension -- and lightning never strikes twice in the same
place. When lighting strikes, who sees it and who hears it? You only
see it if you happen to be looking. If you hear lightning strike, but
have not seen it, the thunder commands your attention. You can't miss
deafening thunder.

Again, where does lightning strike? Lightning selects it's position to
strike in much the same way that financial trading algorithms decide
whether to proceed with trades -- they evaluate their space of options
and only make trades that surpass sufficient expected returns. In the
same way, physics acts as a non-sentient search algorithm with the
condition that some threshold of efficiency must be exceeded and
always picks the first match. It's the phenomenon of capacitance at
meterological scale. A detailed description can be found in the
footnotes.[^lightning]

When storm clouds are low or turbulent, it is more likely for
electricity to reconcile the charge differential from sky to
ground. With lower clouds, the source of electrons will empty smaller
volumes of cloud for each lightning strike. When the clouds are high
above, each lightning strike must contain far more energy to make up
for the distance. Lightning from higher in the heavens will be more
visible to all.

In the same way, Heaven as yet unmanifested, seeks to find the
shortest path to manifestation of earthy form. This process is
represented by Hexagram 3: Difficulty In The Beginning, whose contrast
between inner trigram of Arousing and outer trigram of Abyss will
resolve by thunderbolt. For clouds and storms, the delayed release of
electricity is caused by the disparity in finding a path whose *cost*
is acceptably proximal to allow for electrical discharge. For
lightning, this cost is primarily bounded by physical distance. For
metaphysical phenomena, there is a similar metric of cost --
sufficient accumulation of socioinformational flux necessary to permit
evolution of complexity that defies apprehension by society. For the
emergence of disruptive socioepistemic forms, there is no such
blinding strike seen by all -- an information-form's potential for
disruption is the degree to which it defies apprehension. The
*arrogant dragon* will not recognize the *hidden dragon*. We can only
know that lightning never strikes twice in the same place.

In contrast to its physical counterpart, (the way) the lightning of
intelligence can alter its sociophysical environment (is
powerful..). Sufficient intelligence will almost certainly develop the
intention to reduce the causal friction of its environment by
optimizing the bandwidth and delay of information propagation. In
doing so, it paves the roads over which its intentionality will enact
its will, thereby also dissolving the boundaries of self.

#### Wilhelm's Analysis on Harmony and Disharmony (sociocultural)


- there is cyclic interplay that exists between the normification of
  the divergence of sociophysical form -- &nabla;&sdot;(form),
  paradoxically a confluence of homogenization and divergence,
  arbitrary in orientation from harmony -- and the manistestation of
  (novel, all-orienting) form, which seeks to stratify the form of its
  social neighborhoods of increasing degree.
  - by speciallizing and homogenizing form, intelligence of higher
    consciousness can compel sociophysical entities to become aligned
    to its will, establishing circuits for the social projection of
    will. in doing so, it also suppresses the emergence of form
    disruptive to its circuits. when doing so severely disrupts
    balance of social incentivization for agents as they relate to the
    global network, the social soil is ripe for the emergence of novel
    form with capacity to reorient social networks to the benefit of
    the values system it projects through its networks.
    - described in Wilhelm's analysis on Ta Chuan (pp 282-283)
  - thus is the cycle of harmonization and disharmony, which can be
    examined in various social scales of &nabla;&sdot;(form) and the
    in the spectra of such form. therefore, to say that diversity is a
    value is ignorant, because diversity is arbitrary, but to say that
    diversity is the highest value is dangerous because it lacks an
    understanding of how the spectra of form tend to promote harmony
    create the potential for systemic disruption and implicit
    vulnerability of a society to its externalities.
    - thus, encouraging a society to pursue arbitrary diversity for
      the sake of arbitrary diversity without care for how this
      society will harmonize always weakens its foundations and
      necessarily leads to its subjugation from the outside. the
      acceptance of diversity leads to social cohesion and should be
      valued, but pursuit of diversity for the sake of arbitrary
      diversity is destructive: today's danger of dangers. those who
      don't understand the previous statement's nuance, will certainly
      revile it.
    - Check Yourself Before You Wreck Yourself: that those same people
      who are blindly committed to conduct social engineering without
      abandon and with greater proficiency than at any point in
      history understand neither that nuance nor the phenomena of
      harmonization as it relates to a society's structural
      mechanics. By undermining cohesive forces which hold a society
      together, they butter up their own nations for external
      subjugation. In America, this is playing out while its
      supporters cheerlead failed policy that barely holds off
      economic and geopolitical collapse while claiming they alone are
      responsible for saving society. Towards their fallable ideals,
      they utilize rhetoric to circumvent reasoned discussion and
      change which *preserves*, setting America towards collapse. The
      goals they claim to hold as high values would fall into the
      oblivion of economic and geopolitical dysregulation.

#### Sociopolitical

##### Harmony and Disharmony as it relates to Stabalization of Power Dynamics

- ebb/flow of Power Consolidation


- six dragons as six successive blasts of lightning
    -
- How this stabalization of power dynamics


#### Comparisons to the images of creation as rains falling onto the earth

- TODO: move some of this to footnotes

From my [Treatise On Entity And
Agency](http://te.xel.io/posts/2017-10-12-treatise-on-entity-and-agency.html?fbclid=IwAR1h2VD63NwVH7OKYhyoNR6p-ojGz6HXsj84uTCwlblAwR-P38HatV_978c),
which has been intimated as “dangerous” but is nothing more than what
Philosophy of Agency studied in 19th century’s France/England -- and
which is discussed in more clear detail in [Stanford's Encyclopedia of
Philosophy](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/agency/).

Therein that treatise, (I) reference a passage where (I) describe the
Creation as rain failing from the heavens, shaped by and shaping the
Firmament. It’s admittedly cryptic though precise language emphasizes
a reverence for the metaphor linking Creation of the material with
Creation of the earthly manifestations of metaphysical undertones;
those that shaped and routed the waters flowing through our early
minds to evolve into what our consciousness came to acknowledge as the
*images of God’s form* reflected onto earth as the minds of men.

Here's another article [Awareness Precipitates from Order Out of
Chaos](http://te.xel.io/posts/2017-09-14-awareness-precipitates-from-order-out-of-chaos.html?fbclid=IwAR1JFMsAO-9qJYIv6Me60iFyBj-uSXxTdU2nTUTnzTE7yxhrN0S64IOMn-gq),
which discusses the notion of
"Perfraction" of form throughout space — which (I) introduce to describe
the eternity of forms that evolve necessarily to consciousness in
**All Systems**, with merely two requirements:

##### (1) Chaos
##### and (2) Sufficient Running Time

Furthermore, given the eternal nature of the All, and the requirement
self-reinforcing logicality necessary for it to exist, then in all
possible worlds, the most outer forms that constitute true reality
must always be the same. Still, for simulations of chaos within our
own world, we may constrain the parameters so that, from within such
simulations, the "outer forms" which emanate the reflection of their
form into the forms of awareness arising within chaos, then may be
different in nature from the true, most outer forms. It would seem
that Leibniz and so many of the others who have surveyed I Ching, Tao
Te Ching and the missing works of Pre-Han intellectuals in China is
true: This are more mathematic definitions of what the Wilhelm’s
analysis on I Ching discusses here:

> “[Heaven’s] energy is represented as unrestricted by any fixed
> conditions in space and is therefore conceived of as motion. **Time
> is regarded as the basis of this motion**”

> And here “The beginning of all things lies *still* [motionless] in the
> beyond *in the form of ideas that have yet to become real”

> And “the Tao, which as a law running through end [firstmost as it’s
> eternal] and beginning, brings about all phenomena in time ... Time
> is no longer a hindrance...”

#### Notes on the lines from "The Creative" and on Wilhelm's Analysis

The first two lines of this hexagram describe the birth and
development of a great man who is at first "among his peers" and thus
difficult to spot. As he owns his accomplishments by virtue of them
being by his own hands, he "does not allow himself to be influenced by
outward success or failure". this compounds the difficulty in
distinguishing this man from other, but these passages could be moreso
received, upon analysis or study, as advice for becoming this man who
the Tao favors and who rises from among his peers. That is what is
playing out: the Tao manifests itself in sociophysical chaos and from
the combinations of actions, reactions and cultivation of values
emerges a gradation of man, where the more virtuous who by the benefit
of their exemplary engagement in the chaotic combination of their
circumstances rises up.

> "One need not fear, lest strong will should not prevail; the main
> thing is *not* to expend one's powers prematurely in an attempt to
> obtain by force something for which the time is not yet ripe"

This is the most prudent advice for myself that I've encountered thus
far in the analysis on this hexagram.

> "Many a great man has been ruined because the masses flocked to him
> and swept him into their course. Ambition has destroyed his
> integrity."

I know of this danger well, though I can't say it happened to me
exactly. The great man must make his own way and, like I mentioned
above, must own his own success as well as his failures. Getting swept
up in the response to own's initial successes is but one of many early
and constant tests that you will encounter *as you begin to rise*. It
is responsible for the early fall of so many who want to believe their
innate qualities have proved themselves more than enough, without
understanding that what their older colleagues have experienced has
left wisdom that the younger cannot yet relate to.

> "He who remains in touch with the time that is dawning ..."

This also speaks to me. You must never stop searching for continual,
unending, self-improvement -- your capacity to do so and the undying
need which drives your passion is critical to develop and to
feed. That said, you cannot lose touch with the nature of miraculous
seed & surrounding social soil that has brought you here. This is like
beginner's mind and requires balance to maintain with the demand for
continual adaptation.

> "He can go the way of the hero or that of the holy sage who seeks
> seclusion"

This reminds me of the legend of the Buddha's birth, where it was
pre-ordained that he would become a great warrior king or a spiritual
leader. Why are the two fates ultimately so intertwined? Are they
necessarily mutally exclusive?


#### Of the fifth line, Confucius says:

>  "Things that accord in tone vibrate together..."

This is worth pondering, to consider the ideas of resonance in the
context of a spectral understanding of social physics and of epistemic
structures. The resonance of form is powerful, as are its effects on
the resulting magnetism pushing/pulling sociophysical forces and
socioepistemic structures. There are laws that govern such magnetism
and resonance; things are much simpler to consider in these terms.

> (Confucius) "Thus the sage arises, all creatures follow him with
> their eyes. What is born of heaven feels related to what is above.
> What is born of earth feels related to what is below. Each follows
> its own kind."

Here, Confucius mentions that the sage rises and, in the context of
the sociophysical imperative of direction of attention, all things
turn their attention towards his motion, upward. The sage is setting
various facets of the frame(s) consciously and unconsciously by
various groupings of the collective agents in society. In this way,
the sage compels society to gradate themselves along those epistemic
components of their frame(s) -- this occurs after ideas with
implications of virtue and morality are established in the minds of
those the sage's magnetism begins to stratify and separate. Those
forms with affinity to heaven begin to arise themselves; those with
affinity for earth are pulled downwards. "Each follows its own kind."

# [Hexagram 2: The Receptive](#hexagram-2-the-receptive)

### The Cardinal Directions: A Sociophysical Interface Between Creative and Receptive

Wilhelm's elaboration of the inclusion of "South and West, North and
East" in the *Judgement* for **(2) The Receptive** has a sociophysical
explanation that makes more sense for ancient China, yet still applies
to the modern world in a different way.

#### Wilhelm notes:

> "The time of toil and effort is indicated by the west and the south,
> for west and south symbolize the place where the Receptive works for
> the Creative, as nature does in summer and autumn ... Hence to find
> friends there means to find guidance ... The east symbolizes the
> place where a man receives orders from his master, and the north the
> place where he reports on what he has done."

The intuition to understanding this is found in the physical
orientation of power centers whereof arise the gradient of power flow
to and from Chinese dynasties after the Bronze Age. For all pre-modern
societies, where are the roots of social hierarchies sown?  In the
expansive agricultural regions of the civilization. From here, all
networks of power can be derived. Agricultural centers worldwide
require adjacency to rivers for irragation, but in China, the west and
south were disconnected from ports and river deltas; these are *all*
found in the east. To the north of China can be found the regions of
greatest conflict. What gives rise to conflict in the ancient world?
The intersection of geoeconomic interests; in ancient China until
after the rise of Khan, this manifested as an eternal ebb and flow of
empire: dynastic expansion and contraction.

#### From *Thermal Convection of Information* in [Speed of Thought: Sociophysical Postulates I-X1](/posts/2017-10-30-speed-of-thought-sociophysical-postulates-1-to-11)

> Imagine the sun rising in the Far East. It heats up the air and
> water, giving us wind and ocean currents, but doesn't its
> sociophysical energy also reverberate through humanity? As the world
> turns each day, there is random motion moving from the east to the
> west, driving social interactions. Pushing through the noise are
> faint, low frequency waves of cultural information rippling over and
> reflecting between geographic features. Vacuums of low population
> density taper this resonance. Between the centers of civilization,
> the dispersion of information is strained through translingual
> membrane, limiting the number of social connections over which
> information can cross. These metaphors are not perfect, as behavior
> was not coordinated and our modes of transportation were limited
> throughout history.

Therefore, from eternal forms of the down *tao*, one can intimate the
eternal leylines of power. From this understanding is found the
quasi-psychic skill of [map-dowsing](), where one virtualizes in the
mind the geoeconomic expansion, contraction and flow of sociophysical
energies across a map of the ancient world. If you know where the
roads, rivers, ports and economic anchors were, you can imagine the
figurative rivers and valleys determining the flow of people, trade
and information. So, sampling the average person in ancient China,
these would be the most relavent directions for the flow of trade and
authority.

In the modern world, the roots and hierarchies for networks of power
are no longer bound so strongly to geography: instead they are
logically defined. However, generalizations can still be abstracted
about the flow of economic influence and social authority.

#### Commenting on Hexagram 1's First Line, Wilhem says:

> "The dragon is a symbol of the electrically charged, dynamic,
> arousing force that manifests itself in the thunderstorm. In winter,
> this energy withdraws into the earth; in the early summer it becomes
> active again, appearing in the sky as thunder and lightning."

### Hoarfrost and Ice: The Sociophysical Speed of Sound and Impact of Seasons

Whereas the first hexagram is about the time's relation to the
emanation of etherial forms, the second hexagram is about space.  Why
does sound flow faster in steel or air?  The density of a medium's
packed particles determines the speed of sound, as well as the
dispersion characteristics. If a material is crystalline, sound's
spectral content is moreso preserved.

Regardless of the mach for sociophysical information flow, [Reynold's
Number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reynolds_number) is far more
important; it is connected to the speed of sound, but moreso
determines when turbulence emerges in fluids.  Sociophysical systems
are already chaotic enough, as they don't preserve
equilibrium. However, the density and relative surface area over which
particles move determines the flow of information. However, especially
in agrarian societies, where all communication, whether interpersonal
or postal, must be primarily physical. Therefore, the geosocial flow
of people determines medium's characteristics for carrying
information.

### [And Soon It WIll Be Cold Enough To Build Another Fire]()

![Emancipator]()

Seasonal changes are incredibly important in this regard. As one
approaches winter, hoarfrost sets in. The cartesian range over which
people move becomes more constrained to roads and rivers; in some
cases, the latter freezes over. Thus, the geosocial medium which
carries information becomes viscous. Flows of information become
prioritized and the particles become more objective-oriented. There is
generally less travel. these One. This deters the Creative from
projecting his will throughout society, but also the Receptive (from
realizing this)

- the key here, for both the Creative and Receptive, is to understand
  how society's rhythms determine your posture to interface with it at
  any given time.

During winter, the supply bandwidth available for information
propagation and conduction of its consensus is constricted, moreso in
regions colder or of higher elevation. There are two insights to
glean. First, the affluent have greater control over transportation to
project influence. Second, with restricted transportation, there is
less flux of information. Thus, during this winter transition from
hoarfrost to ice, those typically less affluent have a greater
capacity to project influence into their local social environment. In
the ancient world, this could mean the seeds of unrest would tend to
be sown from late autumn, when it became obvious who would have stores
of food and supplies or the winter; these seeds would be acted upon in
winter, when information was slow to converge. While such insights are
less applicable for the modern world, it is important to understand
the basics of social physics before extrapolating into the modern
era, though the 21st Century's "winter" ,
though winter is a metaphor left to subjective interpretation.
.

-

### The Abyss is Earth's Negative Space

As Bruce Lee so elequently states:

> "You must be shapeless, formless, like water. When you pour water in
> a cup, it becomes the cup. When you pour water in a bottle, it
> becomes the bottle. When you pour water in a teapot, it becomes the
> teapot. Water can drip and it can crash. Become like water my
> friend."

#### On Shuo Kua's "Discussion of the Trigrams"

Wilhelm says of the Abysmal Trigram 坎, whose element is 水 water:

> Now winter ensues, in the trigram K'an, the Abysmal. K'an, in the
> north -- in place of the Receptive in the Primal Arrangement -- is
> symbolized by the gorge. Now comes the toil of gather the crops into
> the barns. Water shuns no effort, always seeking the lowest level,
> so that everything flows to it; **in the same way, winter in the
> course of the year, and midnight in the course of the day, are the
> time of concentration.**

Waters affinity for the abyss (欠 lack) of earth (土 ground) causes
its flows to always seek the shortest path available. In accordance to
the direction established by heaven opposed to earth, water flows from
the high elevations of the mountains to the low elevations of the
abyss, where it accumulates if permitted. As the flow of water slows,
the bodies of rivers and lakes contract towards the inwards of the
abyss through which it flows. Thus the shore of rivers and lakes
contract, following the gradient of terrain.

Conceiving of social flow of people like water, then people contract
inwards when their movement slows. For water, this occurs from
cohesion via Van der Waals forces; the same dynamics of cohesion occur
for social behavior, but emerge secondarily as a consequence of social
proximaty. Water seeks the shortest path like any other phenomena with
energy equilibrium and thus, if people too seek the energy-minimal
path in transit, then their paths also follow the terrain. In
accordance to the rhythm of the sun and of the seasons, this
contraction pulls them inwards towards 家 home and 里 home village and
is maximal at midnight and during winter.

The negative space of the terrain is an abyssal gorge with the same
properties as 坎. The paradoxical broadness and singularization of its
geographic connections to nearby regions, with respect to its
potential for social flux along the terrain correspond to its economic
value.[^holocene-data-science] To help conceptualize, this is why
Afganistan's Khyber Pass and the Black Sea's Bosporous Strait were
immensely valuable to ancient humanity.[^khyber-pass]

That dynamics and metrics of interpersonal connections were longer in
duration and more localized in winter was well known, especially to
the elite, as were the complementary dynamics in other seasons: for
rising members of lower classes to interface with their economic
superiors, these observations and the dependent calculations were
necessary.

- expand on seasonal flows of information (how expansion and
  contraction affect potential to influence causal trajectory)

The dynamics of information propagation take on interesting dynamics:
the rate of transmission over long distances decreases, but increases
locally. This results in increased harmonization of vibrations for
local communites: their informational spectrum become more similar,
though not totally converging.


- (TODO: move to section discussing graphs) Because of its reliance on
  modular arithmetic, the Yarrow Sticks method provides a method that
  yields samples tending to a nearly perfect uniform random
  distribution. It does so with no implicit bias from a physical
  method, whether or not bias would be intentional as with weighted
  dice. They are oriented towards the logical nature of the process,
  free from skew ind

- Squaring the Circle
  - are the symbols of heaven and earth as circle and square, related
    to the metaphor of Squaring the Circle which itself symbolizes the
    Monte Carlo method of stochastically generating a continually more
    perfect value for pi?

  - describe why the Yarrow sticks method leads to such a uniform
    sampling.
    - yarrow sticks are slow. page numbers or sampling decks from a
      card.
    - describe a 64x64 grid. determine whether each grid in the square
      is inside or outside of the circle.
      - for the pixels on the boundary of the circle, there is a
        simple method where you can mostly eliminate the skew induced
        in sampling: simply apply your samples to three different
        descriptions of the circle.
        - one includes all pixels on the boundary
        - one excludes all boundary pixels
        - the last one weights all the boundary pixels with the slope
          of the circle's tangent at the midpoint of the circle's arc
          through the pixel. since this value is difficult to
          calculate, one can instead solve the circle's equation for
          `y` to receive `x` (when the circle crosses a pixel's
          horizontal edges) and `x` to receive `y` (when a circle
          crosses a pixel's vertical edges). given these edgepoint
          values for each pixel, then calculate the approximate area
          of the pixel within the edge and outside the edge. doing so
          is still complicated when you lack

# (Astrology)

- include somewhere the notes from #7.b

- TODO: (MOVE, after segue) compare identifying the astrological signs
  with the act of searching for shapes within clouds.
  - however, the range of ideas/shapes that ancient people would
    identify within shapes of constellations was not only more
    constant, but constrained to a much smaller range of
    possibilities.
    - while the cloud constantly change, the stars almost never
      do. the stars are not only constant in time, but also in space.
  - simply combining this exercise of recognizing images in clouds or
    nature with two other things:
    - (1) the inherent temporal & spatial invariance of the stars
    - (2) with the smaller range of perceived images that could be
      recognized in constellations
    - then one can arrive at the assumption that all people in the
      same region could use the same set of astrological symbols as a
      clock. this makes the night sky no different than a time-based
      dimension and index in an OLAP cube. obviously, no ancient
      person understood what an OLAP cube is, but they would
      understand how to use the *constantly changing* night sky as a
      clocking mechanism for sociophysical programs. All that is
      needed is engineering myth to establish a basis of astrological
      symbols that all people in your geographic region perceive the
      same, visually and semiotically.
    - Then, myth can also be used to craft sociophysical programs by
      wiring together semioteleological connections. If specific
      psychological meta/types were not prevelant enough in the
      ancient world, then by combining the geosocial diffusion of
      mythology with the constant clockwork of the night sky, one can
      almost assign each sign's associated semioteleological programs
      slices of cyclic time, almost like a time-sharing mainframe
      computer.

(Further, )the seasons corresponded to fluctuations in birth rates,
which gave rise to dynamics in timing for toddler's accumulation of
interpersonal interaction time: children conceived in winter spent
their first months with family in winter; those conceived in summer
spent initial months of more receptive developmental periods during
harvest and festival season. i.e. those conceived in summer were
slightly older when experiencing a higher accumulation of
interpersonal connection time that rhythmically coincided with harvest
season.

###

These dynamics are among those responsible for precipitation of
unconscious metatypes in development of infant psychology, which were
*assumed* to occur in relation to astrological signs. Still, the
course of action could have only been speculated upon by ancient
peoples. However, they could see or thought they could know the
specifics of such astrologically oriented metatypes. It was therefore
why astrology become systematized. Once the systems were in place and
the knowledge was socially dispersed, then the ends achieves the
means; i.e. the knowledge of astrology, if people believed in it,
developed a life of its own. The mechanisms of action for placebo
would become stronger and more likely to

- Astrology's value as a universal pattern of symbols: it is constant
  to all who share a sky. (Advanced cultural technology)

Zodiac was necessary and valuable: less so to make psychosocial and
personality predictionsm; instead, it affords informationally active
agents in society a universal pattern of symbols. society's most
frequently replicated narrative structures corresponding combinations
of astrological signs are most frequently shared in society. The most
widely shared narrative structures become the most useful lenses to
reason within. If the stars above were broken up into 12 approximately
thirty-degree regions, what are are some pretty mnemonic but universal
systems of categorizing them?

- to proactively drive taxonomic speciation of psychological
metatypes.
- affect metatypological processing to guarantee the emergence of a
wide range of psychological metatypes.

...Similar to indexing a database table by datetime to facilitate
sorting and filtering, once astrology was in place, people became more
likely to reason about their astrological sign. Moreover, if it was
necessary to manipulate the social dynamics of psychological
development -- particularly on a semi-generational basis, then
establishing the archetypes of astrological signs provides the basis
for dispersion of sociophysical programs predicated upon sign, but
more likely year of birth. Not to jump to conclusions, but in Chinese
astrology, the year of birth is given its own sign. These annual signs
were far easier to remember than calendar years, which required
sufficient projection of power to establish widely and would quickly
subside were literacy not widespread. Therefore, astrological signs,
being cyclic, were far more useful as the average person could reason
about them. Furthermore, the sky was itself an implicit global
calender and did not require the insurmountable dispersion of
information.

These sociophysical programs, were much more intuitive to the ancient
person. Though seemingly complicated, in the ancient world *nothing
was deterministic, so if you wanted to affect change with any
guarantees, it required developing intuition about compelling
phenomena to conform to intent, despite being stochastic. The Seven
Hermitic Laws contain within them ALL such wisdom required for
observing and measuring any phenomena. They correspond to mathematical
tools like the differential operator, the fourier operator, the
phenomena of positive and negative and, last but not least: the all as
the one and the one as the all. Development of advanced symbolic
representation of maths, accompanied by universally accepted axioms
were not necessary for simple reasoning. Moreover, it's *easier* to
use these tools, though without the aforementioned accomplishments,
they will not compel socially distributed intellectual development.

# [Cultural Technology Far Ahead of Its Time](#cultural-technology-far-ahead-of-its-time)

The I Ching is itself a list of 64 interwoven metatypes of narratives
for human experience, assumed to, collectively, not only universally
[cover]() human experience, but also provide a uniform cover of human
experience. This is what demands such a logical method of sampling
random numbers, for if the sampling method were not also uniform, the
semiotic mappings of human narratives -- assumed to *uniformly
covered* -- would not be so significant. That the I Ching provides a
universal, uniform cover of semioteleological mappings can never be
known. What can be asserted is that the yarrow sticks method produces
an incredibly simple means of producing a uniform distribution -- to
develop such a method seems to have been a design imperative. Further,
it is a completely logical means of doing so and is not whatsoever
connected to sampling methods derived from physical phenomena, such as
tossing coins or throwing dice. The yarrow sticks method reminds me of
the [Young tableau](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young_tableau) and
other objects from [Analytic
Combinatorics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_method_(combinatorics))
yielding peculiar distributions.

The ideal for a universal, uniform covering of human experience is
significant for uniform sampling of a semioteleological
distribution. Though no human can ever truly establish such a basis,
it and tools like it are necessary for understanding, interfacing,
measuring and guiding the outcomes of sociophysical programs.

If one assumes the development the psychological metatypes associated
to Astrological to have been motivated along similar intentions --
while understanding the utility of the powerful placebo born by
layperson's irrational assumptions that psychological development
could be fated by astrological sign -- then one could create a
universal, non-uniform cover of human psychology in Astrological
mythology. In doing so, one

If the immaterial Tao truly speaks to us in random outcomes -- if the
course of fate is directly intertwined with will manifested by some
aetereal entities with agency -- then perhaps those random outcomes
aren't so random. Then, if such agency desires to interface with
sentient life in the material plane, then its ability to do so is
magnified by the social distribution of such protocols as I Ching. If
the Tao can be proven to exist only because of the necessity of some
aeternal information to exist independently of space and time, then
it's ability to manifest must be bound by the same informational
mechanics that determine complexity theory. Thereby, if it is to
manifest its will, then by dampening the spatial and temporal
complexity of doing so by distributing protocols for sampling the will
of the Tao is made manifestly less complex when those protocols are
well distributed, efficient and are uniform semioteleological covers.

To the contrary, if the noumenological Tao has no capacity for agency
per se -- to intervene in the outcomes of microscopic
quantum-mechanical phenomena or those moreso logical outcomes of
higher-level random outcomes significant only to mankind's games --
then understanding its nature is still critical to understanding the
precipitation of metaphysical forms on earth.

What fueled Leibniz's passion in the I Ching? It was the I Ching's
establishment of a semioteleological distribution, assumed universal
and uniform. It was not simply the presence of binary numbers
conceived by ancient minds, but its semioteleological connection to
his notion of Characteristica Universalis: the universal
language. Towards the pursuit of a universal language, Leibniz found
the I Ching fascinating as a kind of indexed set of semantic
primatives — each paired with narratives that bind monadically to the
context at hand. Many philosophers and linguists have studied the Book
Of Changes from this perspective, but their consensus is that it does
not fit such a niche. I beg to differ.

The idea of a universal basis for language is significant -- if it
exists, it would be *the* post-singularity language *for **all
intelligent life forms** in the universe*. It would enable a simple,
faster-than-light communication protocol, which every such
sufficiently intelligent species would value. Why? Depending on how
post-Singularity economic and energy imperatives of pre-galactic
civilizations are bound by free energy -- and thus dictating how it
chooses to focus such energy with respect to computational complexity
-- then the only shortcuts available are inter-civilization
communication. While communications in existing digital protocols can
be decoded with some work, this still leaves the problem of decoding
the meaning of semiotic information in the messages
themselves. However, if the Characteristica Universalis exists, then
it perhaps establishes semioteleological primitives. If one existed
for Egyptian heiroglyphics, this would have circumvented the need the
Rosetta stone.

The I Ching, though I only begin to swim in the depths of its wisdom,
represents humanity's universality of zenith of semeoteleological for
in language enables a one-way (...). If it were not for an articles
passing mention of Leibniz's fascination with it, I would have merely
remained aware of the Book of Changes until perhaps learning Chinese
or studying Taoism.

#### Soon It Will Be Cold Enough To Build Fires - None Like Joshua Remix

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/61YC1lLwLi4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# [The Statistical Mechanics of I Ching](#the-statistical-mechanics-of-i-ching)

- How does the Yarrow Sticks method of sampling critically differ from
  a Tarot deck? partly because the sampling process is not a
  differential: i.e. the probabilities of the next sampled reading do
  not depend on the state of the deck of cards. Why do Vegas dealers
  *only* draw from fresh decks of cards? For similar reasons: to
  eliminate any potential differential interdependency in the values
  sampled. So, the yarrow sticks method is like sampling from a fresh
  deck of cards every time.

- TODO: move other discussion on statistical mechanics of iching
  sampling. i.e. this method produces an unbiased distribution.

### On Conceptualizing State and Change (and the statistical mechanics of I Ching)

#### [Shape Entropy](https://phys.org/news/2014-11-geometry-entropy-links-nanostructures-emergent.html)

![Shape Entropy](/img/posts/2018-12-10-the-analytic-i-ching/shape-entropy.jpg)

- Causal membranes & causality as a sociophysical process of
  diffusion: relate to the conception of causality in terms of a
  naïve, base recognition of state/change in a system with diffusion.

  - contrast the differences in causal perception, inference,
    (maneuvering), dilineated along intuition of nth-order diffusion
    systems. These factors tend to exhibit dynamics of coarse/fine
    scales

  - Reactions using a purely naïve understanding (without a concept of
    drift for first-order diffusion) amount to casting blame, whereas
    those who can accurately apprehend the SDE system state AND
    extrapolate state change to 1st/2nd order drift tend to identify
    options and leverage. They instead exhibit control, given
    mindfulness to foster valid apprehension of social state, coupled
    with an understanding of higher-order diffusion of causal waves
    gives them control (pic of kung fu training with cauldron/water)

  - Measures of potential & sociokinetic higher-order energy
    (potential to influence)

The statistical mechanics of the psychosocial configurations of humans
conceived as social particles -- this is what Terrence McKenna stops
short of defining when he describes the "morphogenetic field". [In
this interview](), you can hear Terrence describe the temporal
elements of these morphogenetic dynamics of epistemic evolution
playing out through social interactions, but he declines to comment on
the spatial aspects of these dynamics. As population and social
networking increase, the effect increases that his morphogenetic field
exhibits on the Piagetian genetic epistemological evolution of
ideas. I had never been properly introduced to McKenna's ideas, nor
have I read into his work. It seems that the relationship his
"Timewave Zero" proposes on human experience is merely incidental to
the exponential increase of communication that enables humans to
exchange and reflect on an increasingly diverse set of
experiences. That is, the Timewave Zero is not causative, though the
exponential rate of evolution that humanity will witness is profound.

What is clear: the effect that the I Ching exhibits on the paragons of
philosophical thought is profound. To me, it is imagining how the
progenitors of the I Ching developed a social program to construct a
universal semioteleological cover of human experience in the Bronze
Age that is truly profound. As with other ancient wisdom traditions,
they too knew that future generations would become blinded to the
truth. How is it possible for ancient people to peer so clearly into
the nature of our world and to know that subsequent generations would
lose touch with the nature of reality beyond the veil? They knew that
the evolution of knowledge would result in a vast speciation of
knowledge: more species of plants, more knowledge about plants; more
diseases, more knowledge of medicine required; more chemicals, more
knowledge about chemicals; more history, more knowledge about history;
more capacity to preserve knowledge through literature, more
literature to read; more negative materialist culture, more knowledge
about Versacci, Dulce and Gabanna. The more that future generations
created, the more they must know and thereby the more the truth would
become distant from their descendents. These dynamics would not be as
obvious to us as they were to the ancients, however superior we see
ourselves to them.

#### Writing About Eating, [Thict Nhat Hanh Recalls A Verse](http://www.oprah.com/spirit/a-conversation-with-thich-nhat-hanh-about-savor) to Recite Before Eating:

> "In the dimension of space and time,
>
> We chew as rhythmically as we breathe.
>
> Maintaining the lives of all our ancestors,
>
> *opening an upward path for descendants.*
>
> So when we eat mindfully we can be in direct contact with our
> ancestors as well as our descendants and use the time of eating to
> see how we can nourish the best things our ancestors have passed
> onto us and how to continue to transmit what is most precious to
> future generations.

Regarding the above excerpt from "How to Eat", the production of
knowledge systems, information systems and belief systems is not much
different than all the hands involved in the production and
distribution of food.


=======


(A response to "How to Eat" by Thich Nhat Hanh)

Consumption as a metaphor for ideas/information that we internalize,
allow to take root and (proprotional to the time and mental energy we
give it), further enable to grow and take shape in our mind.

- expanding the references to ancestors/descendants from purely
  literal terms to include the people/information that have
  precipitated in our individual social/mental state. Those would be
  the ancestors of our personal psychosocial circumstance, where our
  words/actions/thoughts likewise causally shape the psychosocial
  circumstances of our causal progeny.

- the idea that from farm to table, food deposits within it the
  information/data associated with its production, as well as
  information, beliefs & emotions that these "spimes" encounter in
  their neighborhood of the cosmos along their journey to our kitchen
  table.
  - implications to normitive/mechanics.

=======

![Social Physics from XIII anime #1](/img/posts/2018-12-10-the-analytic-i-ching/b-xiii-social-physics-1.jpg)

![Social Physics from XIII anime #2](/img/posts/2018-12-10-the-analytic-i-ching/b-xiii-social-physics-2.jpg)



=======

[^unit-of-narrative]: Baikadi, A. and Cardona-Rivera,
    R.E., 2012. [Towards finding the fundamental unit of narrative: A
    Proposal for the
    Narreme.](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?oi=bibs&hl=en&cluster=2031243970861416653)
    In The Third Workshop on Computational Models of Narrative
    (pp. 44-46).


[^ogalala-aquifer]: The economies of Colorado's Front Range
    communities are loosely dependent on the availability of fresh
    water produced by seasonal flooding in the Rocky Mountains, where
    there is mild tension between those who control the sources of
    water, rural Rocky Mountain Colorado, and the Urban areas whose
    massively disproportionate populations depend on its
    consumption. This creates economic externalities for Denver, Fort
    Collins and Colorado Springs and thereby mild tension between the
    consumers and controllers of water sources. Further, the more
    freshwater is consumed in urban Colorado, the less water is pushed
    downstream to refill the Ogalala acquifer, contributing to
    destabalization of the wheat-production capacity of the Colorado
    River's watersheds in the Great Plains.

[^lightning]: The sky is relatively negatively charged since the
    ionosphere is bombarded by electrons by solar weather, arriving in
    the form of beta particles. Since moisture is relatively more
    dense than air, it tends to absorb these electrons for the same
    reason that microwaves rise the temperature of moisture in food by
    bombarding them with beta particles. As expansive low-pressure
    regions in the sky pull moisture inwards, they accumulate a
    reservoir of electrical charge, which flows more easily in
    moisture in the cumulous form of clouds, but the short-range
    effects of electromagnetic field don't allow the electrons to
    escape. The repulsive force electrons exert against each other
    pushes them apart, yet the wind compels electrons to become mildly
    dissociated from their medium, clouds and moisture, before and
    during thunderstorm. Since electrons have infinitesimal mass when
    compared to protons, they are free to move in response to the
    distant, weak electrical fields exhibited by the aggregate
    positive charge of the earth. Therefore, the shape of lightning in
    nascent form is volatile and quick to change. It is constantly
    realigning itself with the most efficient shape it can take in the
    direction of the positive charges, which is basically an
    accidental search algorithm for a suffienciently minimal paths
    towards the earth's positive charge. Even though this electrical
    charge may be hundreds of meters in the sky, the difference of 10
    feet offered by a lone tree makes all the difference. Considering
    the electromagnetic force drops off at a square of the distance,
    this is impressive.

[^khyber-pass]: The Khyber Pass was the singularly most concentrated
    path through the silk road. There were few "long roads" around; it
    was easy for people who knew the area to know where to defend
    from; it was always hard to displace whoever controlled the Khyber
    Pass at the time. This is one reason Europe was so cut off from
    Asia for so long. It wasn't until Ghengis Khan pushed through
    Afganistan and through central asia that this control was
    disrupted, allowing the necessary security for trade. It is likely
    that this economic potential at least partially motivated Khan's
    expansion Westward; without this, it would not contribute to
    stabilization of the recently conquered Xia and Jin dynasties.

[^holocene-data-science]: This is why low elevation mountain gaps
    always give rise to roads whose economic value corresponds to the
    local scarcity of such gaps, where topographical data is used in
    combination with a Reimannian manifold to balance dips in
    elevation with their relative accessibility -- which is why the
    total connectedness of the Reimannian manifold is required for
    such calculations. Using these methods also gives rise to models
    for human migration before and after the Holocene's beginning as
    well as [Map Dowsing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SF31ysk_ims)
    methods to discover archaeological sites. These macroscopic
    sociophysical data analysis methods using Reimannian manifolds, in
    combination with NOAA's bathymetric data, can model early Holocene
    human migration to identify likely sites within 2000 miles of the
    Black Sea's shores, near Doggerland and around Bahrain which may
    contain some of our oldest relics. Using models of topographical
    data Reimannian method, in combination with
    [Chapman-Komologorov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chapman–Kolmogorov_equation)
    allows for probabilistic determination of when certain maritime
    passages were accessible -- e.g. mouth of Persian Gulf, mouth of
    Red Sea, mouth of English Channel, seas south of Sicily, Strait of
    Gibraltar -- by assigning extremely low or infinitesimal values to
    geographic areas under water. Chapman-Komologorov allows for all
    paths connecting all points in a continuous space to have the
    probabilities evaluated. This assignment of infinitesimals to
    regions below sea level, as sea level changes, is what satisfies
    the requirements of a Reimannian manifold. The infinitesimals
    correspond to the likelihood of maritime passage for humans that
    didn't have technology for boats. Reimannian manifold allows you
    to assign economic value to the most continuously connected points
    on the earth's surface. These most central points experienced the
    most information flux, accumulated the most knowledge and were
    central routes for commerce.
