---
title: "A Spectral Theory of Information"
categories: "blog"
tags: "philosophy epistemology"
headline: "What is meaning in linguistics and semiotics?"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Pictured above are the famous notes on I Ching gifted to Gottfried
Leibniz.

![](/img/posts/2018-12-10-the-analytic-i-ching/cauldron.jpg)

<a name="a-spectral-theory-of-information" />

# [A Spectral Theory of Information](#a-spectral-theory-of-information)

A critical idea for understanding sociological dynamics, generally and
especially in the 21st century, is **spectral information
theory**. Without it, you can't make predictions about trends on
social media. You can't even understand the causal implications of
your own actions in our technocracy.

It essentially provides a spectrogram for information, where
individual instantiations of information are frequencies and their
amplitudes correspond to their prevelance. One way to explain it to
children is "What's your favorite word? What do you think your
friend's favorite words are? What do you think the class's favorite
word is?" -- that's not so complicated, is it? Put away your crayons
and your liberal arts degree(s), this is the stuff marketing and
communications is made of, folks. With advances in computation and
analysis, it's about to become cold, hard science.

<a name="the-era-of-the-subjective-is-coming-to-an-end" />

### [The Era of the Subjective is Coming to an End](#the-era-of-the-subjective-is-coming-to-an-end)

We will discover that the capacity for subjectivity evaporates as our
collective computational prowess expands. That's right:
post-modernists be damned, subjectivity has always been a fleeting
illusion. The good [old] news is that the bars of your newfound
structuralist prison are reigned in by limitations imposed by
computational complexity and free-energy. The degree by which the
potential for subjectivity is mediated is a problem of social
engineering and metamodernism: to balance the energy requirements of
computation with the needs of society for the realized
phenomenological benefits for efficient computation, society must
adapt itself informationally. Language, knowledge and other cultural
artifacts need to be architected to maximize the benefits of
computation. Without cheaply indexed language and culture, humanity
depletes itself of energy without gaining phenomenologically
significant returns on technology.[^caelis-ruissant]

- include information from #3.a and #3.b

  - This conceptualization for information crosses into the territory
    of music theory! ... mapping
    information in terms of *tones* and *information chords* that
    correspond to times-series emissions of patterns of cliques via
    algebraic graph theory. The graph-theoretic structures can be
    mapped to an over-arching, all-encompassing ontological structure
    of generalized information-geometric tones & chords. A universal
    language should be based on this ontological structure -- and
    recursively analyzing the overlap between semantic mappings of
    language pairs should provide insight into the structure of this
    global generalized ontological structure.

![Cliques and Edges](/img/posts/2019-03-23-a-spectral-theory-of-information/complete-graph-cycls.gif)

TODO: restructure the following

that japanese culture has excelled in the following three things blows
my mind:

(1) constructing/diffusing/perpetuating normalization of values,

(2) while intuitively understanding metaphysics & idealism to the
point of seemingly influencing the evolution of their language around
these philosophical primitives

(3) while also embracing the philosophy behind the Kanban method
(which inspired the agile design philosophy)

... this blows my mind because it means they have flexible, but
unified culture. they retain control and unity, while bending and
adapting.

<a name="acknowldgement-of-the-spectral-in-eastern-languages" />

### [調: Acknowledgement of the Spectral in Eastern Languages](#acknowldgement-of-the-spectral-in-eastern-languages)

In Japanese, the concept of 調 (chou) means both *investigate* and
*tone*. The symbol 調 is used in words that represent "condition;
state of affairs", "investigation" and "auditory tone".  At first
glance, this seems counterintuitive -- but when you investigate, you
seek to ask questions that indicate the amplitude of informational
tones. 調 is composed of the symbol 周 (circumference), modified by
the radical 言 (say, word). If you wanted to see how far across the
social graph information had spread, how would you identify where to
look and how broadly? You would probably investigate.

**Choushi wa dou?** means, loosely "what's going on?". Other
derivations from 調 more clearly imply the combined denotative
*semantic tones* from 調: investigate (information acquisition) and
tone.

#### 調和: Harmony

#### 調査: Investigation

#### 調合: Compounding or Dispensing a Medicine

#### 調子外れ: Discord

#### 調律: Musical Tuning

#### 調味: Seasoning (literally tone-flavor) -- with connections to 意味 (literally idea-flavor)

#### 調号: Musical Key Signature

#### 調波: Harmonic (wave)

#### 調声: Tonal Mark (viz. Pinyin)

#### 調べ直す: To Re-examine or Reassess

#### 調心輪: An Aligning Ring, which guides a piston's motion to stabalize its timing in an engine

#### 調べ合わす: To Tune To or To Check Against

Other interesting words in the same semantic vain can be delineated
from the characther 曲's connection to both music and curvature. where
線 simply means line, the combined 曲線 means curve.

###

In the west conceptualizing in terms of the spectral is almost
entirely relegated to the obscurantism of the occult, native speakers
of eastern languages get these concepts for free -- no initiation
required! While the semantics of many of the same concepts do appear
in Western languages, they appear in idioms, in myths or in forgotten
aspects of etymological evolution. The Han Dynasty's writing system,
which propagated from Middle China to Japan and Korea, slowed
linguistic evolution in the Far East by binding morphemes

You can see how the practices of Shinto and Taoism openly deal with
managing the spectral content of information. Though it might be
sacrilegious, if one were to run computational linguistic analysis on
Ema tablets, you would produce spectral insights into the collective
desires of the community served by the shrine.

#### Ema Tablets[^tokyo-ravens] Hang In A Shinto Shrine

> Religious practices have been adapted to fill critical social
> functions. Here, information is being collected about what people
> wish for in their community.

![Ema Tablets](/img/posts/2019-03-05-disnormalization/ema-tablets.jpg)

The practice of hanging and burning Ema tablets facilitates an
exchange of information that helps priests and religious organizations
tune into the needs of their community. Christianity has similar
practices -- dedicational prayers, devotionals and confessions --
where the [teleonomic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teleonomy) niche
fulfilled is to facilitate informational exchange critical to serving
the community or to orient individuals to be receptive to change.

<a name="wat-you-mad-bro" />

### [Wat? You Mad Bro?](#wat-you-mad-bro)

In the West, you practically need to sell your firstborn to the
Illuminati or your soul to the Masons to operate with these
concepts. It is forbidden knowledge and, albeit cryptically, the
impact that the spectral has on western societies is covered in the
book [The Law is a White Dog](). Accumulating "informational taint" by
one's actions or social associations ...

In the west, the consequences of association with tainted individuals
range from mildly burdening your reputation to all-out [Corruption of
Blood](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attainder) in the
extreme. Corruption of Blood, in its legal implementation, is a
practice associated with attainder, but as it and other forms of
attainder can occur implicitly or as a consequence of a sociophysical
program, it is not strictly dependent on a legal mechanism. The Law is
a White Dog deals with the spectral consequences of accumulation and
diffusion of taint in society -- in America, the Constitutional
provisions prohibiting Bills of Attainder have been circumvented by
secret law and secret precedent, as well as the prohibitions of Cruel
and Unusual Punishment.

Secret law itself seems carried out by occult traditions and is
thereby extra-legal: you are never nominally punished, but are
subjected to "extra" helpings of legal process until whatever shadowy
forces behind the scene that direct law and "order" see that society
at large believes that the individual's punishment has been meted out
fairly. Nothing will be left of the individual's social memory, except
ghost stories. If [the extralegal bullshit that happened to me in this
case](https://github.com/dcunited001/bb8) had been pulled off, I would
never be able to receive a Visa to live in Japan. Do these people
care? No. It is a foregone conclusion to them that my life is already
and always will be *forfeit*. Forfeit to what? I don't even know.

The same mechanisms by which these spectral processes proceed are nigh
verboten for open discussion in the West, but so commonly understood
in the East that they have been encoded into the semiotic and semantic
structures of the Han Dynasty's written language for over two thousand
years. Why? Because the individual is sacred in the West and the
collective is enshrined in the East. Again, why?  Because the West was
always reacting, economically and sociopolitically, to developments
occuring in the East. To congeal to a sociopolitical collective was to
conform to dynamics with causal momentum set in motion by the
East. Why? In addition to the geoeconomic distribution of resources
and commerce, it is because the day begins in the East and the causal
implications of economic or sociopolitical events ripple westward,
giving the East an timelessly insurmountable advantage for proactively
driving dynamics the West would respond to. This advantage has
subsided in the modern era, but the impacts to the evolution of
language and especially philosophic thought will never be erased.

####

### Explain The Image of a Spectrogram

- Where the amplitude of each Idea-Tones' frequency can be seen as the
  aggregated attention invested in that idea over time - Whereas the
  frequency axis in an audio spectrogram is simply linear with special
  relationships encoded into harmonic frequencies, the axis is far
  more convoluted for an information spectrogram.  - And while it
  isn't so simple to explain, the conceptualization of ideas plotted
  in an infospectrogram is still relevant.

### Algebraic Speciation of Infogeometric Structures



#### Yes, I Just Made Up The Word "Infogeometric" ...

> Moral consequentialism is a thing and neologisms can sometimes be a
> justified, necessary evil -- especially when they save you eight
> characters. Information Geometry? No. I didn't make that up. It has
> profound implications for artificial cognition and ontology.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/m3QbaIdJ-xs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

- Useful as an ontological structure that algebraically provides a set
  of generalized statistical models, which may be used to analytically
  approximate any statistical system -- regardless of tensor rank,
  which is increased by every algebraically irreducible direct sum.
- Similar to the algebraic structures describing convexity in high
  dimensions or enumerations relevant to Gaussian curvature.
- Does the difference between norms (as distribution) and beliefs
  about them provide a basis for descent using fisher metric to find
  the infogeometric analytic structure(s) that generate(s) the
  perceived norm.

=========

### [Hexagram 16: The Laplacian's Socioinformational Analogue, Not Simply "Enthusiasm"](#hexagram-16-the-laplacians-socioinformational-analogue)

- brought to you from the depths of zen, it's a spectral conception of
  phenomenology

### What's Normal? Trial By Bayesian Persuasian

- it means that one person acts as a litmus test to vouch on the
  behalf of another person. used by social justice warriors and
  scientologists to decide whether to permit [temporarily] social
  access to a targeted individual.

#### Don't Understand? Let this lady from the Simon's Institute read you your rights.

- how consciousness/awareness of norms impacts the process of
  normitization and people's application of deontological reasoning
  - how do people behave when they are unconscious to norms or believe
    they are aware of norms which are invalid assumptions?
  - this is a good segue into hexagram 16

- structure in content about a spectral theory of information

- the concept of teaching and teaching how to teach something
  - the statistical paradoxes thereof (from the same index card as the
    above distributions transport illustration)


Spectral Th. Of information article: teaching not only influences
probabilistic distributions but also enables the growth of strong
social connections. I.e. the mentor/protege connection is strong and
yields social dynamics at the individual with predictable
qualities. New methods of learning (online learning) disrupt this
quality systematically

- what does this mean for normification?
- TODO: move notes from section on Information Consensus

### Pay It Forward

- (index card on teaching/norms)
- implications of information replication to the spectral content of
  epistemic structures, norms and the dynamics thereof.

=========


- idea upon reading "Dictionary of Untranslatables"
  - TODO: i really need good pictures for this section because it's
    very difficult to understand without a visual conception of NLP,
    word vectors, semantic networks, n-grams, and other tools of
    computational linguistics
  - "semantic triangulation" of difficult-to-translate words b/w
    language pairs, language triples, etc
  - these untranslatables provide a metric for semantic parity b/w
    languages.
    - (1) languages descending form common roots diverge further over
      time.
      - this causes them to accrue generally more
        "untranslatables". furthermore, there are energy/entropy
        dynamics at play governing large-scale evolution of
        morpheme-to-sememe mappings and semantic networks
      - that is, evolution of morphemes-to-sememes over time causes
        sememes and morphemes to "repel" each other in semantic space
        - ...
    - (2) langauges experiencing coevolutionary dynamics by being
      geographically close.
      - these langauges usually share common language roots, but not
        always.
      - for languages occupying regions that are close, new concepts
        are introduced at similar times via trade and political
        influences. new ideas are introduced, but the speakers of each
        language must unconsciously decide how to map new morphemes to
        new ideas.
  - for both of these types of sufficiently similar languages, they
    have similar semantic networks than "less similar" languages.
    - and particularly, their evolutionary dynamics over decades of
      time should exhibit more similarity than other less similar
      languages.
    - however, measuring these languages requires vast volumes of
      literature whose authorship can't be too centralized and can't
      be too decentralized. this is a common problem with data in
      computational linguistics: there aren't very many languages with
      enough data to measure semantic networks or evolutionary
      dynamics with confidence.
      - the period of european literature from c. 1500-1900 is ideal

  - for both of these cases, "semantic triangulation" of
    untranslatabes provides a semantic signature that should be
    characteristically preserved *or* deformed over time in ways that
    are idiosyncratic when compared to "more translatable" words.
    - identifying these untranslatables among language tuples and
      processing them with computational lingustic techniques into
      digitized data for semantic analysis enables their idiosyncratic
      semantic translation signatures to be used as the semantic
      equivalent of how any position in the universe can be determined
      by comparing the stars in the sky to a map of known pulsars
    - pulsars are incredibly rare stars with idiosyncratic qualities
      that very along their plane of rotation. the set of visible
      pulsars allows you to resolve your position in the physical
      universe very quickly by determining how frequently the visible
      pulsars are rotating and along which plane they rotate.
      - every other star looks fairly similar, but pulsars are so rare
        and idiosyncratic that the likelyhood that there are two
        points in the universe that share a similar view of pulsars is
        beyond infinitesimal.
    - how do maps of pulsars as used for the ascertainment of position
      in the universe relate to the concept of [orthonormal
      basis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orthonormal_basis)
      - what kind of "basis" enables this resolution?

  - define as "semantic pulsars"?

  - these idiosyncratic "untranslatables" function similarly to
    pulsars in navigating semantic networks, the convolution of which
    should lead us to becoming capable of mapping the metaphysical.
    - there are almost certainly problems of intractibility related to
      this process of epistemic convolution towards a map/basis for a
      universal semantic network
    - however, this universal semantic network probably corresponds to
      mathematic structures and would provide the optimal basis for
      Leipniz's [Characteristica
      Universalis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characteristica_universalis)
      - connect to [Kleene
        Star](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kleene_star)
        - how does the concept of kleene star connect combinatorics
          and language?

### How are such Untranslatable Semantic Pulsars

  - how are such "Untranslatable" signatures useful for NLP or
    computational linguistics?
    - (1) this construct provides another tool to assess the parity of
      translations. that this works for humans is apparent in the
      "Dictionary of Untranslatables" where the authors discuss common
      traps of translation and common concepts/words to identify to
      quickly gauge the translator's sentiment/antipathy towards the
      work they're translating, even if the concept at hand is
      seemingly minor.
      - example of a common trap: translations of the concept of
        agency b/w french/english works of philosophy. it is
        difficult/confusing to translate. understanding how the
        translator chooses to handle sujet & agency in works that
        cover those topics have implications for the parity of the
        translation.
        - the french/english translation problem for agent & agency is
          also a great example of a translation that has grammatical
          implications and, as such, is a particular difficult problem
          that must be overcome in NLP and computational linguistic
          analysis. so, in particular situations, there are no
          satisfactory "substitutions" for agent/sujet
    - (2) observing the distance between morphemes and their
      idiosyncratic sememes over time to quantify dynamics in
      linguistic evolution
      - these idiosyncratic untranslatable sememes then become a kind
        of "standard candle". the complex distance between these
        standard candles over time is very important.
      - however, more critical to the study of dynamics in linguistic
        evolution is observing how this distance from *other* concepts
        (sememes and morphemes) as they relate to the semantic
        "standard candles"
        - especially if it's possible to begin measure entropy and
          distribution of sememes in semantic networks and the
          morphemic pointers mapped to them in particular languages.
        - because (energy dynamics) apply (in complicated perhaps
          unquantifyable fashion) to semantic networks
          - for regions of semantic networks where there are too many
            morphemes mapping to sememes, those morphemes will
            gradually repel each other.
          - however, morphemes don't simply map to singular
            sememes. they map in complicated fashion. and occasionaly,
            very artificial dynamics begin to emerge based on
            psycholingustic implications of the phonology of morphemes
            as the relates to other morphemes (e.g. puns and homonyms)
          - whenever these artificial dynamics occur, they defy the
            common energetic dynamics that govern natural evolution of
            semantic networks.
        - this is where you begin to see the "invisible hand" of the
          illuminati's control over langauge and linguistic
          evolution. eventually, it will be demonstrated in an
          undeniable manner by computational linguistics.


#### Not-e, Nati Zut

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e0A5vzGMQr8" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>


=========

TODO: edit this (it's from shitty FB post)

Gottfried Leibniz is the philosopher I feel I resonate most
with. Reading about his work has always felt as though I am reading a
strange summary of my own life’s work set 350 years into the past,
including not only the essence of his ideas, but also his style and
some motivations.

The following are parallels between his ideas and my own original (but
not novel) thoughts:

TODO: Monadology -- before I knew of Leibniz; the monad as the primal,
all-encompassing metaphysical substance and the expedience/convenience
it lends to arguments about metaphysics, eternity, God, the pinnacle
of consciousness/awareness

TODO: [Characteristica Universalis]() -- before I knew of Leibniz or
had any exposure to Lovecraft; the idea of a universal basis for
language, which, in 2015, I posited would be THE post-singularity
language for ALL intelligent life forms in the universe, as some
zenith of hniversality in language enables a one-way #FasterThanLight
communication protocol, which every such intelligent species would
value. Towards the pursuit of a universal language, Leibniz found the
I Ching fascinating as a kind of indexed set of semantic primatives —
each paired with narratives that bind monadically to the context at
hand. Many philosophers and linguists have studied the #BookOfChanges
from this perspective, but their consensus is that it does not fit
such a niche .... I have only just discovered why this book would
fascinate me. I have a ton of ideas to cross-apply math/statistics to
explain why the hexagrams and their narratives are what they are. (I
wrote this in a single night with no prior digitized notes from ~11pm
onwards, but by 8:00am my family was threatening to place me in a
mental institution so I recorded our argument on #Periscope)

TODO: philosophy of mind, pan psychism, free will -- in a monastic
conception of metaphysics that places every conscious agent within the
All, which Leibniz reconciled via “a form of compatibilism”, free will
& determinism are not mutually exclusive. Along similar lines at the
end of my #SwordInTheStone essay, for every species of intelligence
where the Singularity is an ergodic certainty, I posit that the
#IllusionOfSeparation (for agents with varying degrees of awareness of
self/other) is a transient phenomenon that ultimately ends with a rush
into an artificial panpsychism made viscerally real. This is the
species ultimate destination after the Singularity: a local
approximation of the metaphysical monad made manifest, but a
consequence of concentrating the computational capacity to do so is
the dissolution between self and other: the end of the illusion of
separation local to that species’ domain of causal influence by a
monopolization of physical matter conducive to acting as a causal
mediator for higher-order information forms — the kinds of things
Liebniz claimed were intelligent, like animals/plants and *anything*
processing virtualized information. In plainer terms, absent some
twist of Lovecraft — and if you don’t know what this means, start with
Shadow Out Of Time and don’t spoil it for yourself! — every entity
physically becomes interwoven into One which is the All, or at least
some approximation of the All, given the available local computational
resources. All the matter capable as acting as conduit for the
exchange of causal information accelerates its causal centrality and
computational density. Everything local to that species’ domain of
causal influence (i.e. their planet) then becomes one.... and finally,
as to free will, this means while we have *awareness of the illusion
of separation* ([originating[ from the stone and copper age
introduction of architecture and art which led to our development of
ego as individuals and as a species) we have something like free will
that is bound by an ultimate fate: this transformation into one at the
Singularity. As long as this is Ergodic (and will always occur, given
enough time...) then it must happen, though like a flooding river
flowing around obstacles, there are many courses to this singular
destination. That river may flow through us; we may push it back if we
so choose; or it may come long after our species becomes the next to
mysteriously disappear — but if it is Ergodic, then it will always
happen that our planet will be turned into a supercomputer.

TODO: maybe reorient this last discussion to focus more on
centralizing causal connections into a giant supercomputer. the
illusion of separation is what causes us to believe we have free will,
but the interesting paradox here is that we do have it so long as we
believe in it. In the end, as causality and power over causality is
centralized into systems of matter with increasingly dense
computational capacity, then we gradually lose our capacity for free
will, or for free will with significant consequence.



- Oneirontology as the “octave” religious tradition. It completes #8
  of seven other major traditions, but should be resonant to all of
  them as though it is a octave distant from each. The idea that in a
  modernized world, each major belief system stakes its claims on a
  large set of information-bands
    - (a la each tradition has the equivalent of a major FCC license
      in terms of mindshare — large ranges of spectrum with momentum
      for social propagation, from an a spectral understanding of
      information)
    - This is what causes the metamodernist ebb and flow of
      diversification/evolution of belief systems:
        - when there are too many, few have the capacity to build
          institutions; thus people seek to create a religious/belief
          tradition to fill the gap and cause people to harmonize
          their behavior.
        - When the most distributed traditions monopolize their
          influence, it acts as a strong unconscious force compelling
          a new belief system or a schism.
        - This is mostly a trend of the past millennium. As we
          approached modernism and accelerate towards convergence,
          these trends will become prominent, but it seems that the
          architects of major world religions (in the generations
          after and before the founding) understood this concept of
          balance in the distribution of infospectral bands,
          especially in the context of eschatology.


[^caelis-ruissant]: This, and other things people didn't both read
    *and* understand, have been covered in [Caelis Ruissant](/posts/)
    and other essays.

[^tokyo-ravens]: Yeh, I saw this in an anime once (Tokyo Ravens in
    2014) and it blew my mind.
