---
title: "Physiological Components of Spirituality"
---


- mention glitch mob video as an example of imagery of meditation

####

- [Mantak Chia on the connection between the second brain and
  Chi/Prana](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kaefdiE4ovk)

#### ^^^^ Love IS stored in the heart







### Where Pop locking Intersects with Ancient Kalisthenic Methods for Developing Energy Chi


### Wierd meditation techniques

#### Zazen w/ visual occlusion

- to be combined with zazan meditation (eyes fully relaxed, not
  closed not open), perhaps with the vision partially obscured by
  grid-like occlusions that let "some light" in
  - in this manner, coerce your third eye to rectify the ablated
    left and right images,
    - *just* like you would focus your eyes at a particular depth,
      causing the stereoscopic image to congeal into a 3D image.
    - this is causing your mind to make sense of image data that
      doesn't make sense. it's just noise, with a barely discernable
      pattern (the 3D stereoscopic image you'd normally see, but
      scrambled with noise, injected just like gaussian noise in
      machine learning algorithms)
    - my forcing your inner sight to rectify this obscured image, you
      should be able to hack/trick your mind into activating these
      modalities
    - if you do it right, some non-sensical image will "snap" into
      resolution and you will hallucinate not unlike with
      psychedelics, although without the psychotropic side effects.
  - one way of stating the goal would be provoking a "magic eye" type
    image, though the image will be more assymetrical, irregular and
    amorphous.
    - unlike magic eye, the images aren't actually counterparts of
      each other, so your mind has to work harder to stitch them
      together, it's harder to persist the combined image, but because
      of the disparity, it becomes amorphous and slightly moving.
    - however, you can't move your eyes whatsoever or the image falls
      apart
    - also, in bright light (shielded by whatever is occluding your
      vision) the cones/rods start to wax/wane at different rates
      depending on the specific levels of light that break through the
      occlusion.
      - this causes a lot of the amorphous, slow-moving effects, but
        if it happens while your mind has the image stitched together
        and with zero eye movement, then it results in interesting
        effects. once your mind is mentally in a meditative state, it
        should feel like you "zoom into" the illusion.

#### Ohmming vibrations

- use long low-frequency ohm sound as basis,
  - notice that, as you slowly move your tongue or allow you teeth to
    transfer the vibration up towards your skull, you're channeling
    that vibration into different regions of your skull
  - when the constructive overtones of the "ohm" sound overlap, you
    can feel various regions of your inner skull resonate.
  - focus on the "spectral laplacian" -- i.e. can you hear the shape
    of a drum" -- try to learn how to channel the vibrations to
    specific areas of your skull intentionally
  - let this be the focal point of your medition.
    - combine this motion of the resonant focal point with the motion
      of your chi from the chakra's in your head
  - just focus on feeling the resonance ebb in and out
    - if it is at all possible to actually cause the fluid around your
      inner skull to vibrate intensely with your ohming, then this
      should randomize fluid concentrations in those areas (it's
      impossible to know)
    - of not, it's a very interestting focal meditation
  - "move" the area of focus around,
  where the vibration as though the constructive overtones of the
  sound


========

# General Introduction

There is a higher-order energy field that surrounds your body,
primarily generated by the Piezo-Electric activity of your bones. The
motion of this fluid flow is stimulated by your breathing, but can
also be manipulated by your movement. You develop a feel for this
higher-order energy by combining intuition with an understanding of
fluid dynamics.

- QiGong is about pushing this manipulating the fluid-dynamics of
  this higher-order energy field.

- by higher-order, i mean that it can't be directly measured because
  it's the *product* of physical quantities related to kinetic,
  thermodynamic and magnetic factors. still, it can be felt.
  - it becomes much stronger with a diet that includes ~5 glasses of
    green tea per day, minimal acidic diet intake (no soda), and
    raisins/goji berries and other high-ORAC foods.
  - Exercise that raises the oxygenation of your blood helps you
    generate the chi. Once you move it around, it *seems* that your
    brain becomes aquainted with the energy as if it's part of your
    body and seeks to restore the balance while the "fluid" is
    displaced. so the more work you do to "push" around the
    biomagnetic energy, the more the body seeks to scale up the
    processes that produce it.

### Strengthening Your Chi/Prana By Encouraging CSF Movement

- Exercise/Movements that compel Cerebro Spinal Fluid(CSF) motion
  cause hormones & other CSF fluid components to be cycled between
  your brain/body faster. The CSF xcarries it down through the
  ventricles and down the spine in the SAS. If it cycles more, your
  brain can expel waste more quickly and replentish nutrients/hormones
  more effectively (i think).
  - however, cycling the CSF seems to drive the activation &
    development of Chi/Prana/etc. it's fascinating because so many
    people live their entire life without *ever* experiencing this
    once.

### How do the Mechanics of A Theremin Help Explain Chi & Prana

- TODO: Research the mechanics of a theramin

- [Tai Chi Theramin Video](https://youtu.be/LWheouo3cnc)

# Energetic FLows

### Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) And Interstitial Fluid (ISF)

- discuss jim carrey's explanation of CSF flow and how it relates to
  spirituality

- how does ISF differ from CSF?
  - in the VAT(?) what is transferred from the CSF to the ISF (through
    which fluid channels?)
  - much else to refer to here?


### CSF Questions

- what does it absorb in and carry to the spinal, ventricular, and
  cerebellar region?
- what serum components originate in which areas?
- which electrochemical components originate in which areas?

- In which areas does CSF flux depend on:
  - (1) hydrostatic pressure and
    -  to areas which can encourage fluid flow via mechaical motion
  - (2) osmotic pressure
    - the cerebellar/ventricular regions are less "networked" and
      thus, likely rely moreso on osmotic pressure
  - these are my best-educated assumptions

![Pic of Ventricular Connections for discussion on hydrostatics]

- find and reference the CSF study

- from a fluid-dynamics perspective, the effect of a backspin (like 10
  rotations) on CSF and blood flow
  - the change in angular momentum sucks at least the blood to the
    crown of your brain.
    - it'd be interesting to know exactly what happens here
  - it's probably almost entirely bloodflow increase, as you tighten
    your core/legs, restricting bloodflow in torso
    - your head stays at mostly the same distance from center, which
      is the region of your body with almost all CSF
      - CSF regions maintain more consistent volume
      - you do crunch your abs, curving your spine inwards though,
        potentially closing the downward flows of CSF, pushing some
        fluid forward to the spine

### Neuroelectrical Energy Flow

- by "neuroelectrical energy flow"
  - i mean to understand the body's energetic flows as they relate to
    the holistic system, not as they correlate centrally to the
    CNS/PNS
  - Peripheral NS, Central NS

- what are the relationships b/w:
  - the surface area of each section of the spinal dermatome,
  - the diameter of the spinal nerves that supply it
  - and the density/quantity of nerve endings it supplies?
  - and the amount of electrical energy its ennervation transmits back
    up through the spine?

![Pic of Meridians]

- attempt to correlate dermatome, charge distribution, and neural
  width

### Motion, Compression, Tension and (Joint Compaction)

- how do these active factors affect ISF/CSF?
  - Neuroelectrical Energy Flow?

### Movement of Energy Through the Spine

- afferent/efferent nerves
  - mechanims for feedback/reflex/overstrain

- focus on how energy flows from afferent/efferent nerve bundles in
  the spinal column affect adjacent nerves/bundles
  - is there a local burnout caused by excessive usage of a spinal
    nerve bundle? (ion/atp overconsumption that requires a small
    amount of time to replentish) <?>
    - there is probably not, since the nerves/bundles should be coated
      with myelin sheath through the spine, which helps to insulate
      each from the conduction of others and also should provide a
      cache of nutrition <?>

- are there neural faculties for amplifying signal in the brainstem,
  upper/lower? in the spine? at the spine's connection to the nerves
  exiting it?
  - how tightly did our nervous system adapt to prefer minimization of
    energy consumption? i.e. amplification closer to the motor impulse
    source would be less efficient

- <?> for efferent/afferent nerve signals, most interference or
  cross-modulation, if any, would occur in the brain, around/after the
  places where they pass through corticospinal & corticobulbar regions
  - from here, the brain's networks become more elorately networked
- how does the timing of afferent nerve impulses affect how the brain
  processes them?
  - (need to look at how dermaphores signal)
  - is there some clocking mechanism for sensory impulses? or do
    dermatophores signal on input, immediately passing the impulses
    upstream?
    - if it's something like this latter mechanism, without a clocking
      mechanism near the senses

# Sleeping/Meditating in Zero-G

- totally random, but whenever your body experiences gravity, it must
  counter by pushing with some muscles in nearly any position you find
  yourself in -- even when laying down
  - in zero-g, you experience nearly zero force on your body in any
    position, unless you're moving/pushing/pulling
    - so, doesn't this make it slightly easier to acheive minimization
      of efferent impulses through the spine?
      - is it also similarly simple to minimize tactile/etc sensory
      impulses over afferent nerves
  - if so, and if it really is a goal of meditation to generally
    diminish spinal nerve signalling (afferent/efferent/etc), then
    does that mean there are novel techniques for meditation in space?

# Physiological Explanations for Spiritual (Practices)

### Yoga

- [Yoga Physiology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoga_physiology)
  - gland stimulation
  - fluid flux through muscles
  - increased local capillary pressure
  - decreased local arterial/vein flow where a yoga posture cuts off
    large veins

### Variance in Local Rates of Flux

- while breathing with high oxygenation, when taking particular
  medications when stimulating your diet with (all-natural food-based)
  supplements, then there will be higher plasma concentrations of
  oxygen, food, nutrition, etc
  - therefore, the *slight* multiplier effect *over the time one holds
    a yoga pose* combines with the effect of plasma concentrations of
    anything carried by the blood
    - or lymph concentrations of anything pumped through the lymphatic
      system. or the ISF/CSF concentrations of anything carried
      through the ISF/CSF systems
    - therefore, higher plasma concentrations of both beneficial and
      toxic substances can be delivered at *slightly higher rates* at
      least *for short periods of time*.
      - with proper breathing technique and proper "capture" of blood
        flow distorion via body posture (pressuring artery/vein) the
        delivers the substances in your blood to focused areas of your
        body. for some capillary networks this can dramatically
        increase the rate of accumulated flux of blood
  - for any research or treatment methods, it is critical to be able
    to measure a posture/sequence's effect on blood flow
    - or lymphatic/ISF/CSF flow

### Designing Specific Posture Sequences and Altering Postures to optimize some effect

- with knowledge of anatomy (esp. of circultory/lyphatic/ISF/CSF
  systems AND glandular systems) physiological fluid-dynamics, then
  one can sequence, time, pace and optimize their poses to trigger
  glandular release of hormones/messengers to the circulatory/etc
  systems at the right time to focus it into a specific region of the
  body
  - this requires an profound understanding of human anatomy, fluid
    dynamics, circ/lymph/isf/csf systems, and of how specific yoga
    poses influence the fluid flows of these systems
  - still, this would be a fascinating basis for many studies on how
    exactly yoga poses can alter fluid dynamics and local accumulated
    flux of circ/lymph/ISF/CSF

### Yoga and Gland Stimulation

- what glands are accessible/safe to modulate with stimulation via
  slight pressure?
  - what would the gland release? specifically how do the glandular
    byproducts build up? if these are hormones/messengers, how do they
    reach their targets?
  - for a gland's specific byproducts, how much and how fast does it
    accumulate them? knowing this and given some destination (usually
    some organ), what sequence of poses would *actually* provide
    stimulation?

- has there been research on yoga poses and gland stimulation?
  - is it possible to measure plasma levels throughout a yoga session
    to see when/if they spike significantly?

### Some of Kundalini Yoga's Movements Are Intended to Drive Spinal CSF Flux

- the subarachnid (...?) space has to respond to spinal motions,
  - for some kundalini movements, additional downward and posterior
    from spinal circumvection seems to be optimized by the design of
    motion

### The Effects of Specific Breathing Techniques

- [Pratiloma Ujjayi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pratiloma_ujjayi)
 - at least partially derives its effects from:
   - (1) increased rate of inflow in one nostril with the same
     diaphram movement pulling in more air
   - (2) increased vorticity of air, resulting in turbulence and thus
     greater rates of flux across alvalolae

- [Kapalabhati (Hatha Yoga)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kapalabhati_(Hatha_Yoga))

### Qigong's Effects on Neuroelectrical Flow

- after a good session, why does the magnetic sensation emerge?
  - this sensation seems to build up over time and it's as if you can
    feel it and nudge it along while doing the qigong motions
- for me, why does this sensation appear to never go away?
  - i never felt my chi before i started doing tai chi. and when i
    first felt it, it died away quickly after the session.
  - now i feel this bioelectrical force all the time.

- an almost prohibitive level of effort seems to be required for the
  mind still unaware of Chi to distiguish the impact its energy field
  has from extraneous sensory stimuli and kinetic contributions to the
  body's motion. it seems almost impossible for the common uninitiated
  person

  has on your motions from other seems to prohibit the
.
  becoming acquainted with the sensation of this higher-order energy
  field seems to be rare because of the level of effort required to
  isolate it.

### Accupuncture's Effects on Neuroelectrical Flow

- what effect(s) do they have on neuroelectrical flow?
- what materials have effects? why? what is the electromechanical
  effect on neural flow
- how can imagery help identification of meridiums?
  - automated identification of meridiums from CAT/MRI/imagery?
    - the meridiums do not likely not physical
    - instead may represent some derivative phenomenon that only
      emerges a direct measure

# Qi

- does Qi emerge from a *collectively inductive* magnetic field
  arising from blood flow? (no, it seems to be a higher-order energy
  field composed of several physical factors. this higher-order field
  can be "felt" by the mind, but not so easily measured)
  - do the oxygenated forms of hemoglobin (contribute varying amounts
    of EM to the induced field?)
    - it's not an EM field that originates from ferrous components of
      your body. for serveral reasons: there's simply not enough iron,
      it doesn't directly interact with other ferromagnetic materials
      strongly enough.
  - how do nerve impulses and other biomechanical systems contribute
    to the aggregate effect on EMF?
    - they definitely do. if you have activated your chi and can feel
      it by circling your hands around one another, then by tensing up
      the muscles in one arm (by hitting a la pop-lock) you can feel
      the impact of this instantaneously in the other hand.

### Studies on Qi?

- machine learning on generalized human anatomy
  - each subject's chi channels either autolabeled (semiunsupervised)
    or labeled (supervised)
  - analyze what contributes
- is it possible to indirectly measure the higher-order bioelectrical
  fluid? with the correct set of instruments to measure values for the
  flow of the lower-order components?
  - is it possible to hook into accupuncture to measure changes in
    this fluid?

### Qi + Vortices (and fluid dynamics)

- "moving the inner and outer 'chakras' of the mind, simultaneously"
  - moving vortices of chi in the head to create fluxes of large
    magnitude. you focus on moving chi in contrary directions, so that
    vortices are created.

### Using Bon/Buddhist beliefs to defeat the weaponized control of dreams

- using the Bon belief that "we are always dreaming" to help to
  deprorgram "neurological clones".
  - these are weaponized fragments of dreams/memories either inserted
    via control over dreams, via suggestion, via some hypothetical
    usage of nanotechnology, etc

- probably best articulated as a sci-fi scenariou
  - understanding how far ahead DARPA and other organizations have
    ALWAYS been with secret-research implies that we are terrifyingly
    close to this technology.
    - in fact, the nature of the differential singularity implies that
      the gap between publicly and privately available technology will
      only continue to widen.
    - at this point, it's not the technology that we know about that
      we should be worried about: it's the technology that we don't
      know about. and some of this secret technology can *never* be
      revealed to the world without table-flipping specific legal
      paradigms.
      - (yada, yada, yada, i talk about it in Caelis Ruissent)
      - those in control of the differential signularity will do
        everything they can to selfishly retain control over this
        technology, without ever publicly disclosing it.

- regardless of how it's done, how can we be sure to mentally rise to
  the challenges of whose nature we can not know until we experience
  them?
  - if you are dreaming, how do you know the experience is or isn't
    real? if it's a dream, regardless of HAARP and other secret
    technologies, how do you know that the contents of the dream are
    totally the product of your own mind?
    - however, if you belief that you are always dreaming and that you
      are always presented with scenarios to transcend, then you
      condition your subconscious to always be ready to rise to the
      occasion
    - most critically, even when you are in a weakened or vulnerable
      state, you are simply incapable of giving up or giving in.
  - it's not necessarily about giving up or resisting. instead, it's
    about retaining the agency, the willpower and the focus to
    influence the course of events where it is needed.
    - if you completely give in, you give up the ability to influence
      events and you're thus a leaf in the wind.
  - we should always strive to be someone who wakes other people up,
    who empowers other people, even when those people are merely
    fragments of our dreams. we should be struggling to strengthen the
    abilities that allow us to stand up to life's challenges. i
    believe that dreams can be a kind of "hyperbolic time chamber"
    meant to be a place where the mind can strengthen itself even in a
    virtualized manner, while asleep.
    - because dreams are a purely mental construct, one should be able
      to exert control over time and space to extend the length of the
      experience and to change anything. all one needs is the
      awareness agency.
    - in dreams, there are no limitations to transform willpower into
      real changes in the dream world
    - in the waking life, there should ideally be zero limitations for
      transforming willpower into changes in the state of the real
      world. however, the paths provided for accomplishing such
      transformation of state in the real world is limited and
      filtered through the rules of reality and all the sociophysical
      complexities that accompany these rules.

  - if we approach the waking world with a desire to seek change all
    at all costs, then we will become more capable of identifying the
    paths available to transmute will into action necessary for
    change.
  - if we can so easily be convinced to surrender control during
    dreams, instead of rising to the challenge of becoming lucid, then
    when we face similar challenges in the waking world, we will...

- but the key to doing this is assuming that we are always
  dreaming. if we approach dream or reality with the understanding
  that we are always dreaming, then each dream and reality provokes
  increased consciousness and helps to train our minds to most
  effectively direct our willpower for change.

### The Bardo of Death

  - buddhists believe there are six bardos, which are transitionary
    periods between one state and another
    - these are different transitionary periods during which one can
      make meaningful changes
    - the bardo of death: the transition between one life and the next

- the bardo of death does not necessarily start when you are dying,
  but when your mind *believes* you are dying.
  - this is as i understand it ... probably incorrect.
  - in other words, when the idea that your existence is coming to an
    end pervades your consciousness and the subconscious aspects of
    your mind, it presents the human mind with an opportunity for real
    change.
    - here, in the bardo of death, you are presented in a visceral way
      with the finite nature of your mortality in such a way that you
      can no longer ignore it.
    - when your awareness is presented with its own end in a such a
      way that it cannot distort the (significance) of its realization
      of impending death,
      - this is often when you see the true quality of someone's
        nature: what do they do when they believe their limited
        remaining existence is no longer guaranteed? when they
        actually begin anticipate their final breath?
        - what are the most critical words for them?
        - what are the most comforting final actions for them?
      - it is crucial to be aware of your mind at this point because
        like all other transitory periods in life, this one offers
        presents you with the opportunity for real change

- this definition of the bardo of death does not actually mean that
  you die, but that you are subjected to an experience where every
  conscious and subconscious fiber of you mind *believes* that you are
  going to die and *believes* that it knows it is living the last few
  minutes of life.

  - it is important to note that if someone is simply shot in the
    head, they are robbed of this experience. i believe experiencing
    death is critical to having lived life. what happens when you
    leave your body? if you get shot in the head, you are robbed of
    the experience of death because your brain no longer functions
    while you lay dying.

### The Bardo of "Civil Death"

- apparently communists and those in charge of the "mock executions"
  at Guantanamo believe that, by provoking people with artificial
  scenarios and fake trial proceedings, they can invoke something
  similar to the process described above.
  - they gaslight you into believing you are going to die, expecting
    the targets of this psychological torture to be as spineless as
    those conducting the "phony" legal proceedings.
  - in order for this "punishment" or "interrogation technique" to
    work, the person actually must believe that they are dying or that
    they are going to die as a result of secret proceedings they can't
    understand.
  - this is also a fantastic way to hit an MK-Ultra manakin's panic
    button, triggering them to commit some violent act in a psychotic
    state of mind. do I really need to describe the process for that
    type of operation?
    - america sucks ass. they reward the most spineless, gullible,
      ignorant, morally weak citizens to trample on the rights and
      livelihoods of people who would otherwise be strong.
    - this country sucks and is a complete and utter lie.
